




BA-owner IAG suffers from Iberia turbulence..................................................................................................................2
DEALBOOK ONLINE ......................................................................................................................................................3

Ryanair could be forced to sell its stake in Aer Lingus ; UK watchdog restarts long-running probe after EC blocks third takeover attempt..............................................................................................................................................................4
EU chief: Michael O'Leary 'not our enemy number one' .................................................................................................5
Transport: Greece; Aegean-Olympic merger still up in air. .............................................................................................6 (AE) COMPETITION: Ryanair to appeal against Aer Lingus ruling ................................................................................7
UK resumes probe into Ryanair stake in Aer Lingus.......................................................................................................8
MERGERS : COMMISSION BLOCKS RYANAIR 'S AER LINGUS BID .........................................................................9
European Commission Blocks Ryanair ’s Proposed Takeover Of Aer Lingus For Second Time .................................11
European Commission Again Grounds A Ryanair Bid For Aer Lingus .........................................................................13
Ryanair makes massive order for 175 Boeing 737s......................................................................................................15
Iseq happy to buck European trend ..............................................................................................................................17
Ryanair makes massive order for 175 Boeing 737s......................................................................................................18
Second Circuit Won't Revive 'Auction Rate Securities' Conspiracy Case; ANTITRUST...............................................19

































Page 1 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


BA-owner  IAG suffers  from Iberia turbulence
Matthew Staff
262 words
28 February 2013
Business Review Europe
HTBREU
English
Copyright 2013. Business Review Europe
Europe, Feb. 28 -- International Airlines Group (IAG), the owner of both British Airways (BA) and Spanish airline, Iberia has announced a net loss of euro 943 million for 2012.

Coming just one day after  Ryanair had a takeover bid for  Aer Lingus  rejected by the  EU; IAG may have even surpassed them in the negative stakes, as they experienced a dramatic fall from grace compared to the euro 562 million profit that was made just a year earlier in 2011.

The reasons for such a huge drop are thought to be a culmination of factors; not least Iberia's ongoing struggles to deal with rising fuel costs.
IAG's fuel bill rose by over 20 percent in 2012 to euro 6.1 billion, which, combined with the fragile economy in
Spain, forced Iberia to cut 3,800 jobs.

This is a concerning development to occur so soon after 2011's merger of Iberia and BA under the IAG banner, but CEO, Willie Walsh remains positive that Iberia will "adapt to survive".

Another reason to be positive is that, despite Iberia and bmi's poor showing last year, BA still reported an operating profit of euro 347 million, signaling hopes that if the eurozone shows some resilience in 2013, the Spanish arm of the company will have the runway to soar once again.Published by HT Syndication with permission from Business Review Europe.
Document HTBREU0020130302e92s00001




























Page 2 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


B
DEALBOOK ONLINE
By MARK SCOTT, KATIE THOMAS and JAMES KANTER
81 words
28 February 2013
The New York Times Abstracts
NYTA
5
English
Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
DealBook Online; Carlyle Group co-founder David M Rubenstein says  European companies are more open to selling distressed assets and that sales related to government bailouts could provide opportunities; Mylan says it is acquiring Agila Specialties Private for $1.6 billion;  European Commission blocks third attempt by  Ryanair to acquire Aer Lingus;  Fortress Investment Group says its profit more than doubled in fourth quarter, to $107 million. Photos (M)
Combination
Document NYTA000020130302e92s00038








































Page 3 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


Business
Ryanair could be forced to sell its stake in Aer Lingus; UK watchdog restarts long-running probe after EC
blocks  third takeover attempt
John Mulligan
455 words
2 March 2013
Irish Independent
IINM
3; National
33
English
(c) 2013 Independent Newspapers Ireland Ltd
RYANAIR will know within weeks whether it will be forced to sell its stake in  Aer Lingus  by the UK''s Competition
Commission.
The watchdog said yesterday that it has restarted a long-running probe into the airline just days after the
European Commission blocked Ryanair from buying Aer Lingus  in its third takeover attempt of its smaller rival.

The Competition Commission is investigating whether Ryanair exerts undue influence over Aer Lingus through the near 30pc stake it holds in the former flag carrier.

In 2012, the UK''s Office of Fair Trading (OFT) determined that Ryanair''s stake in Aer Lingus "may give it the ability to exercise material influence over the commercial policy" of its rival. The OFT claimed that there was a "realistic prospect that its stake has resulted or will result in substantial lessening of competition on a number of Ryanair and/or Aer Lingus routes between the UK and Ireland".

The OFT then referred the matter to the Competition Commission for a full investigation. Ryanair has attempted to halt the probe on a number of occasions via legal challenges, but without success. The Competition Commission put a stay on its investigation until the European Commission had delivered its ruling on the proposed Aer Lingus takeover this week.

It will deliver a preliminary ruling by May and a formal ruling on its investigation by July. Ryanair boss Michael O''Leary has always dismissed the contention that the airline exerts any undue influence - commercial or otherwise - over Aer Lingus.

Hostile Aer Lingus has insisted that Ryanair''s latest bid launched last year was "clearly motivated by a desire to derail the UK Competition Commission''s investigation".

Aer Lingus chief executive Christoph Mueller has made no secret of the fact that he wants Ryanair removed as a shareholder from the group.

"It is unacceptable that our principal competitor has been allowed to remain as a significant shareholder on our share register even though the European Commission blocked their hostile takeover almost five years ago. This intolerable situation cannot be allowed to continue," he has previously said. The best bet of seeing that achieved may now be through a Competition Commission decision.

However, even if the commission orders Ryanair to sell its Aer Lingus stake, Ryanair will be able to appeal the ruling.

In 2011 the Competition Commission ruled that Stansted owner BAA should be forced to sell the airport to boost competition.
That decision was challenged but last year BAA agreed to sell Stansted, Ryanair''s biggest base, to the
Manchester Airports for £1.5bn (€1.7bn).
Document IINM000020130302e9320002x

Page 4 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


Markets News
EU chief: Michael O'Leary 'not our enemy number one'
331 words
3 March 2013
Sunday Business Post
SBPM
English
Copyright (c) 2013 Sunday Business Post; Source: World Reporter (TM)
The EU transport commissioner has denied there was any political influence behind  Europe's refusal to grant permission for the  Ryanair's bid to take over  Aer Lingus.

EU transport commissioner Siim Kallas has heaped praise on  Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary and denied that there was any political influence from the Irish government behind  Europe's refusal to grant permission for the airline's bid to take over  Aer Lingus.

Ryanair has accused the Commission of holding it to a "different and considerably higher standard" than any other EU flag carrier airline, saying it had no alternative and "very good grounds" to appeal the decision to the European courts.
However, Kallas dismissed the notion that Ryanair was disliked at the highest levels in Europe.
"I have met Michael O'Leary many times and I like him very much," Kallas told *The Sunday Business Post*. "I
definitely do not accept that he is some kind of enemy number one of the European Union.

"We highly appreciate the achievements of Ryanair, which is one the most successful companies and a successful model as well.

"I personally admire him, and we have very good talks. I reject the notion that the Commission does not welcome him as an entrepreneur. On the contrary."

Kallas insisted his colleagues in the competition wing of the EU Commission undertook "very scrupulous legal work before making their decision".
Ryanair is currently at war with Europe on a range of other issues, including passenger rights.

The European Court of Justice recently ruled that Ryanair must compensate more passengers who couldn't reach their destinations on schedule because of the 2010 Icelandic volcano.
Correspondence from Ryanair, much of it berating EU policy, is understood to greatly exceed the amount that the
Commission receives from any other airline in Europe.
One source said that the airline had sent more than 250 letters to the Commission in recent times. Document SBPM000020130303e9330002h















Page 5 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


Transport: Greece; Aegean-Olympic merger still up in air.
177 words
4 March 2013
12:02
ANSAMED
ANSMED
English
© 2013 ANSA.
(ANSAmed) - ATHENS, MARCH 4 - Greece's Aegean Airlines will find out by April 9 whether its second attempt to buy Olympic Air will be cleared or blocked by the  European Union regulator, the Dow Jones news service has reported. The  European Commission, which is reviewing the 72 million euro deal, said on its website that it would give the final answer by that date. The commission rejected Aegean's initial bid in 2011 to snap up struggling Olympic, arguing that the combined company would be too dominant for the small domestic market in Greece. Aegean's falling market share and Greece's dire economy could, however, cast the merger in a different light, the news agency said. Meanwhile, as GreekReporter website writes, in a sign of the tight regulation of the airline industry, the  European Union's competition chief, Joaquin Almunia, vetoed a third attempt by low-cost carrier Ryanair to buy its Irish rival  Aer Lingus,  saying that merger would create a near-monopoly in Ireland. (ANSAmed).
Document ANSMED0020130304e934000be






































Page 6 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


(AE) COMPETITION: Ryanair to appeal against Aer Lingus  ruling
235 words
5 March 2013
Agence Europe
AGEU
English
Not Available for Re-Dissemination, except as permitted by your subscriber agreement. (c) Agence Europe,
Brussels 2013. All rights reserved.
Brussels, 04/03/2013 (Agence  Europe) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair announced on 27 February that it is appealing against the decision taken earlier that day by the European Commission, banning for a second time its attempts to buy up the  Aer Lingus  airline despite Ryanair's promises to deal with the  European Commission's concern about its gaining a virtual monopoly in Ireland (see  EUROPE 10795). In a press release on its website, Ryanair says it has been discriminated against and the ban is political, catering for the interests of the Irish government, which is a minority  Aer Lingus  shareholder. Ryanair says the decision is neither a fair nor a reasonable application of competition rules and flies in the face of earlier decisions allowing airlines to merge in Europe.

Ryanair points out all the promises it has made and argues that there were two potential buyers (IAG/British Airways and Flybe) for the 46 routes described as problematic by the European Commission, that the consultation of stakeholders had shown that the majority believed the businesses to be sold to Flybe were
sufficient and the same majority backed Ryanair's proposals, the Commission recently approved a similar merger (IAG/BA-BMI) and therefore Ryanair says it has solid arguments for appealing against the decision and has instructed its lawyers to do so forthwith. (FG/transl.fl)
Document AGEU000020130305e93500005

































Page 7 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


UK resumes probe into Ryanair stake in Aer Lingus
124 words
6 March 2013
19:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2013 Reuters Limited
DUBLIN, March 6 (Reuters) - Britain's Competition Commission said on Wednesday it has resumed an invetigation into whether  Ryanair's 30 percent stake in rival Irish airline  Aer Lingus  distorts competition in the UK market.

The investigation had been put on hold while the  European Commission decided whether to block  Ryanair's latest attempt at a full takeover of  Aer Lingus,  which it did last week.
The competition commission, which has the power to force Ryanair to sell its stake, will publish its findings by July
11, it said in a statement.
(Reporting by Conor Humphries; Editing by Greg Mahlich)

RYANAIR-AERLINGUS/PROBE(URGENT) | ABN | E | RBN | UKI | BNX | RNP | DNP | PCO Document LBA0000020130306e9360010n




































Page 8 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


MERGERS : COMMISSION BLOCKS RYANAIR'S AER LINGUS BID
728 words
13 March 2013
Europolitics Transport
TRAE
0247
English
Copyright 2013 Europe Information Service All Rights Reserved
Low-cost airline Ryanair's third bid to take over its main competitor,  Aer Lingus,  was rejected by the European Commission, on 27 February. Indeed, this outcome has been expected since 12 February, when Ryanair announced with a great deal of media coverage that the company expected the €694 million bid would fail - despite its proposed concessions.

The EU executive says that the proposed operation would have harmed consumers by creating a monopoly or dominant position on 46 routes departing from or flying to Ireland, on which the two companies currently compete vigorously against each other. This situation, the Commission said, "would have reduced client choice and, most likely, would have led to price increases for consumers travelling on these routes".

Fearing that if Ryanair and Aer Lingus were to double up their routes, real and potential competition on these lines would disappear, the Commission opened an in-depth inquiry into the proposed merger on 29 August 2012. It has emphasised that a new dossier was opened for the third takeover bid, and that the situation had been
re-examined in the light of the current state of the market.
HIGH BARRIERS TO ENTRY

The Commission's inquiry confirmed the existence of high barriers to entry, stemming particularly from the strong market positions held by Ryanair and Aer Lingus in Ireland. Together, the two companies hold an 87% share in the market.

"The market investigation showed that there was no prospect that any new carrier would enter the Irish market after the merger, in particular by the creation of a base at the relevant Irish airports, and challenge the new entity on a sufficient scale," the Commission concluded, adding that this would considerably reduce travelling options for customers and would have probably led to increases in ticket prices.
INSUFFICIENT CONCESSIONS

"During the procedure, Ryanair had many opportunities to offer remedies and to improve them," emphasised Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia. "However, those proposals were simply inadequate to solve the very serious competition problems which this acquisition would have created on no less than 46 routes."

Ryanair proposed several remedies during the investigation. The first consisted of the divestiture of Aer Lingus' operations on 43 overlap routes to the British regional company Flybe. However, the Commission said that Flybe is not a suitable purchaser capable of competing sufficiently with the Ryanair-Aer Lingus merged entity: firstly because the profitability of these lines for Flybe was not guaranteed, and secondly because it does not have the capital base to absorb such low profitability, or potential losses. Finally, the Commission said Flybe's business model was not compatible with the management of a different network with new planes.

Ryanair also proposed the cession of take-off and landing slots at London airports to IAG-British Airways, so that IAG-British Airways would operate on three routes (Dublin-London, Shannon-London and Cork-London). Flybe and IAG committed to operate the routes for three years. However, the inquiry showed that the merged entity would remain dominant in terms of frequency, seats and routes, and that IAG-British Airways would have little incentive to stay on the routes beyond a three-year period.
RYANAIR SET TO APPEAL

Ryanair now intends to appeal to the EU court against this decision, which it has called "indefensible," and which it says "aims to protect the interests of the Irish government" - which holds 25% of the shares in Aer Lingus. "We
Page 9 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
regret that this prohibition is manifestly motivated by narrow political interests rather than competition concerns and we believe that we have strong grounds for appealing and overturning this politically-inspired prohibition,"
said Ryanair spokesman Robin Kiely, re-confirming the position the low-cost airline took on 12 February, to which Commissioner Almunia responded that while the decision was taken by a political organ - ie the Commission - it is not political in nature, and is based on solid legal and economic arguments, which show the impact on
competition and on European consumers.

Aer Lingus, which has always been opposed to this offer, welcomed the Commission's prohibition of the takeover. The company's CEO, Christoph Mueller, said that consumers were being better served by vigorous competition between the two airlines and that "Aer Lingus' position from the outset has been that Ryanair's offer should never have been made".
33166820130313
Document TRAE000020130319e93d0000c



















































Page 10 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


European Commission Blocks  Ryanair’s  Proposed  Takeover Of Aer Lingus  For Second Time
Edward Miller
626 words
13 March 2013
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2013 Mondaq Ltd
The European Commission has prohibited  Ryanair's proposed acquisition of  Aer Lingus,  finding the remedies proposed by Ryanair insufficient to alleviate the substantial concerns about the merger's impact on the market and the anticipated resultant consumer harm. This decision is the third prohibition decision by the European Commission in the air transport sector (and the second involving a proposed acquisition of Aer Lingus  by
Ryanair) arising from the 15 mergers and several alliances it has examined since 2004. Ryanair's existing 29.8%
shareholding in Aer Lingus  remains under review by the UK Competition Commission.

The European Commission (the "Commission") has decided that  Ryanair's proposed acquisition of  Aer Lingus would have harmed consumers through a reduction in choice and a likely increase in prices arising from the creation of a monopoly or a dominant position on 46 routes where  Aer Lingus  and Ryanair currently compete vigorously against each other.
Ryanair proposed a number of remedies to alleviate the Commission's concerns. These included the divestiture
of Aer Lingus' operations on 43 overlap routes to Flybe and the cession of take-off and landing slots to IAG/British
Airways at London airports to enable IAG/British Airways to operate on three of the relevant routes. Each
committed to operate on the routes for a period of three years.
The Commission rejected these remedies and prohibited the acquisition finding that:
Ryanair and Aer Lingus are "by far the most important carriers out of Ireland" directly competing on 46 routes

The merger would have led to very high market shares on all of these 46 routes including the creation of an outright monopoly on 28 routes

There were very high barriers to entry in the Irish market stemming from Ryanair's and Aer Lingus' strong market positions and that there was "no prospect" that any new carrier would enter the Irish market after the merger

The remedies proposed were "simply inadequate to solve the very serious competition problems which this acquisition would have created" since Flybe was not a "suitable purchaser capable of competing sufficiently with the Ryanair/Aer Lingus merged entity" and IAG/British Airways would "not constrain the merged entity to a sufficient degree and would have little incentive to stay on the routes beyond a 3-year period."

The prohibition decision is the third prohibition out of the 15 mergers and several alliances examined in the air transport sector by the Commission since 2004. This decision as well as the two prior prohibition decisions involved two airlines having large bases at the same "home" airport. In each case this fact proved determinative in finding that the proposed merger would result in a reduction in competition.
Not only has Ryanair now been prohibited from acquiring the remaining shares in Aer Lingus, but its existing
29.8% share is also in jeopardy as it is currently being scrutinised by the UK's Competition Commission. The
Competition Commission is due to decide the fate of Ryanair's existing share in Aer Lingus this summer.
Meanwhile Aer Lingus has launched a challenge against the European Commission in the General Court of the
European Union for its award of slots under the IAG/bmi commitments proceedings.
Client Alert 2013-064

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.
Mr Edward Miller
Page 11 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Reed Smith
Broadgate Tower
20 Primrose Street
London
EC2A 2RS
UNITED KINGDOM Tel: 2075566704
Fax: 2074034221
E-mail: jstar@reedsmith.com URL: www.reedsmith.com Click Here for related articles
(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2013 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 -  http://www.mondaq.com
Document BBPUB00020130313e93d000e8










































Page 12 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


European Commission Again Grounds  A Ryanair Bid For Aer Lingus
Niall Collins
768 words
14 March 2013
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2013 Mondaq Ltd
CommissionProposed AcquisitionIAGOn 27 February 2013, the European Commission (“”) announced its decision to prohibit the proposed acquisition of control of Aer Lingus  by Ryanair (the “”). Ryanair has indicated that it intends to appeal the Commission's decision.

This is not the first time that the Commission has blocked a proposed acquisition of control of Aer Lingus  by Ryanair. In 2007, the Commission prohibited such an attempt, a decision which was later upheld by the EU General Court in 2010. In 2009, Ryanair launched a second bid for  Aer Lingus,  but which was subsequently withdrawn. In June 2012, Ryanair announced its intention to launch a new bid for  Aer Lingus,  and upon which the Commission has now delivered its substantive competition analysis.

In deciding to block the Proposed Acquisition, the Commission noted that the market position of the two companies on flights to and from Ireland is even stronger today than in 2007, with their combined share now resting at 87 per cent (up from 80 per cent) for short-haul flights out of Dublin. Further, that the number of routes where Aer Lingus and Ryanair compete directly against each other had increased from 35 to 46. The Commission also opined that the merger raised 'unprecedented' competition concerns regarding the 46 routes and that, on 28 of those routes, the Proposed Acquisition would have led to monopoly.

During the proceedings, Ryanair submitted four different sets of remedies aimed at addressing the Commission's concerns. The final remedy package, submitted late in the process and described by Ryanair as 'revolutionary and unprecedented', consisted, broadly, of the divestiture of Aer Lingus' operations on 43 overlap routes to Flybe and the cession of take-off and landing slots to IAG/British Airways (“”) at London airports (so that IAG would
operate on three routes (Dublin-London, Shannon-London, and Cork-London). Further, Flybe and IAG committed to operate the routes for three years. Additional slot divestitures on London-Ireland routes were also offered. However, following a Phase II investigation involving market testing and the gathering and assessment of views from, inter alia, competitors, customers, travel agents, consumer associations, public authorities and airport operators, the Commission considered that the remedies were not sufficient to remedy its substantive competition concerns.

The EU Competition Commissioner Joaquín Almunia noted that “remedying problems of such magnitude would have required a countervailing force capable of being a strong and viable competitor to Ryanair - precisely the kind of competitor that Aer Lingus is today”. In its press release, the Commission noted its concerns about whether Flybe would have the experience and resources to compete successfully with Ryanair or whether IAG would continue to compete on the 3 routes at the end of the 3 year period.

This is only the third time that the Commission has prohibited a merger in the sector, the other two being the 2007 proposed merger and the proposed merger between Olympic and Agean Airlines in 2011.
Lessons learned from the Commission's decision:
consolidation is welcome so long as it does not occur at the expense of competition;

acquisitions involving airlines with large bases at the same 'home' airport will likely raise more significant competition concerns than in other scenarios;

a remedy comprising divestiture of a combination of assets is likely to be less effective than one comprising divestiture of a viable business.



Page 13 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Now that the Commission has prohibited the Proposed Acquisition, it remains to be seen whether Ryanair will consider the divestment of, or hold onto, its existing minority stake of 29.8 per cent in Aer Lingus (and particularly in light of the UK Competition Commission's on-going investigation into same). It is also interesting to note that
the Commission is currently considering a change to its merger control rules to require prior authorisation of the acquisition of minority shareholdings which fall short of conferring on the shareholder the ability to exercise
'decisive influence' over the undertaking proposed to be acquired. Currently the Commission has the power to prohibit transactions, but cannot order the sale of a minority stake which does not confer such 'decisive influence'.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.
Mr Niall Collins
Mason Hayes & Curran South Bank House, Barrow Street,
Dublin
IRELAND
Tel: 1614 5000
Fax: 1614 5001
E-mail: Eokeeffe@MHC.ie
URL: www.mhc.ie
Click Here for related articles
(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2013 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 -  http://www.mondaq.com
Document BBPUB00020130314e93e000e4






























Page 14 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


Ryanair makes massive order for 175 Boeing 737s
467 words
19 March 2013
22:10
Agence France Presse
AFPR
English
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2013 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Irish low-cost airline  Ryanair on Tuesday announced an order for 175 Boeing 737-800 airplanes in a major fleet expansion three weeks after the  EU blocked its takeover of rival  Aer Lingus.

The massive order was put at $15.6 billion at Boeing catalog prices, one of the US aerospace giant's largest orders ever, though discounts could bring the total value to much less than that.

The deal "will allow Ryanair to grow its airline to more than 400 airplanes, serving more than 100 million passengers per year across Europe by the end of the delivery stream in 2018," the Irish company said in a statement.

"It will sustain thousands of skilled manufacturing jobs in Boeing and its supplier companies and will represent the largest=ever capital investment by an Irish company in US manufacturing and US jobs," it said.

"This is big deal for Ryanair and for us," said Boeing Commercial Airplanes president Ray Conner in a New York press conference.

"Ray Conner took me out for Saint Patrick's Day and got me drunk, and at the end of the day I signed the contract," quipped Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary.
O'Leary said the planes were to be delivered between 2014 and 2018, at a cost similar to that of Ryanair's 2005
Boeing order. Ryanair has an all-Boeing 737 fleet.
He said the company hopes to see growth in Germany, where Air Berlin is cutting back.
"I hope by the end of this year we will be announcing an order for the 737 MAX as well," he added.

US President Barack Obama, who was hosting a visit by Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny on Tuesday, cheered the deal.
"It's an example of how the progress that's made in Ireland benefits jobs and businesses here in the United
States."

The deal was announced after the European Commission on February 27 barred Ryanair's third attempt for approval to buy its Irish rival Aer Lingus.
The EC said passengers would lose out with less competition and higher prices.
O'Leary suggested Tuesday that the company was being penalized for not being a European flag carrier. "We are still the only European airline merger that has been prohibited in 40 years," he said.
"Europe likes to put non-efficient flag carriers together to make them even less efficient."
Boeing's shares closed up 0.4 percent at $85.51, while Ryanair's Nasdaq-traded shares jumped 3.0 percent to
$41.53.
The news came one day European aviation giant Airbus -- Boeing's fierce rival -- announced a record order worth
18.4 billion euros ($23.8 billion) from Indonesia's Lion Air for 234 medium-range A320 jets.
bur-ved/pmh/vs
Page 15 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Document AFPR000020130319e93j0060w

































































Page 16 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


Markets_Euro - Business
Iseq happy to buck European trend
93 words
19 March 2013
The Irish Examiner
IRISEX
English
© Irish Examiner, 2013. Thomas Crosbie Media, TCH
Among a sea of red yesterday, the Iseq was the only  European bourse in positive territory, up almost 1.5%
driven by Irish financial stocks, except AIB, which powered ahead in light trade.
Food group Glanbia was ahead almost 5%, Kerry up 1.38%, with C&C up 4%.  Ryanair shares were up more than
2%, but rival  Aer Lingus  was down 4%.
Paddy Power fell by 0.82% post-Cheltenham, with Petroneft the biggest loser on the bank holiday, down 16.67%. Document IRISEX0020130319e93j0000u










































Page 17 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


Ryanair makes massive order for 175 Boeing 737s
AFP
466 words
20 March 2013
Times Of Oman
TOMAN
English
Copyright 2013 Times Of Oman. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company All Rights Reserved.
New York: Irish low-cost airline  Ryanair on Tuesday announced an order for 175 Boeing 737-800 airplanes in a major fleet expansion three weeks after the  EU blocked its takeover of rival  Aer Lingus.The  massive order was put at $15.6 billion at Boeing catalog prices, one of the US aerospace giant's largest orders ever, though
discounts could bring the total value to much less than that.The deal "will allow Ryanair to grow its airline to more than 400 airplanes, serving more than 100 million passengers per year across Europe by the end of the delivery stream in 2018," the Irish company said in a statement."It will sustain thousands of skilled manufacturing jobs in Boeing and its supplier companies and will represent the largest=ever capital investment by an Irish company in US manufacturing and US jobs," it said."This is big deal for  Ryanair and for us," said Boeing Commercial Airplanes president Ray Conner in a New York press conference."Ray Conner took me out for Saint Patrick's Day and

got me drunk, and at the end of the day I signed the contract," quipped Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary.O'Leary said the planes were to be delivered between 2014 and 2018, at a cost similar to that of Ryanair's 2005 Boeing order. Ryanair has an all-Boeing 737 fleet.He said the company hopes to see growth in Germany, where Air Berlin is cutting back."I hope by the end of this year we will be announcing an order for the
737 MAX as well," he added.US President Barack Obama, who was hosting a visit by Irish Prime Minister Enda
Kenny on Tuesday, cheered the deal."It's an example of how the progress that's made in Ireland benefits jobs
and businesses here in the United States."The deal was announced after the European Commission on February
27 barred Ryanair's third attempt for approval to buy its Irish rival Aer Lingus.The EC said passengers would lose
out with less competition and higher prices.O'Leary suggested Tuesday that the company was being penalized for
not being a European flag carrier."We are still the only European airline merger that has been prohibited in 40
years," he said."Europe likes to put non-efficient flag carriers together to make them even less efficient."Boeing's
shares closed up 0.4 percent at $85.51, while Ryanair's Nasdaq-traded shares jumped 3.0 percent to $41.53.The
news came one day European aviation giant Airbus -- Boeing's fierce rival -- announced a record order worth 18.4
billion euros ($23.8 billion) from Indonesia's Lion Air for 234 medium-range A320 jets.
Document TOMAN00020130320e93k00006






















Page 18 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


Expert Analysis
Second Circuit  Won't Revive 'Auction Rate Securities' Conspiracy Case; ANTITRUST
By Elai Katz
2,306 words
22 March 2013
New York Law Journal
NYLJ
p.3, col.1
Volume 249; Issue 55
English
Copyright 2013 LexisNexis, a Division of Reed Elsevier, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed dismissal of claims that financial institutions conspired to stop buying auction rate securities and triggered the market's collapse. A district court ruled that a lawsuit alleging that private equity funds agreed to refrain from competing with one another in acquisitions of public companies could proceed to trial, after narrowing the scope of the claims.

Other antitrust developments of note included a ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit that plaintiffs who bought price-fixed goods outside the state could bring claims under California antitrust law because the alleged collusion took place in the state and the European Commission's decision to prohibit  Ryanair's renewed proposal to acquire rival Irish airline Aer Lingus.
Pleading Conspiracy

Buyers and issuers of auction rate securities—long-term bonds with flexible interest rates that must reset through periodic auctions and do not trade on an exchange—alleged that leading financial institutions triggered the collapse of the market in early 2008 by conspiring to stop buying auction rate securities in violation of antitrust law.

The complaint alleged that until 2008 the defendant financial institutions had frequently supported auctions using their own proprietary trading accounts to prevent failures when supply exceeded demand for a given auction rate security. These supporting bids became more important to the functioning of the market as financial conditions deteriorated in 2007. Then, according to the complaint, in February 2008, the financial institutions simultaneously refused to support the auction rate securities auctions they managed.

The plaintiffs claimed the alleged agreement constituted a boycott or concerted refusal to deal in violation of §1 of the Sherman Act and the district court dismissed the complaint on the grounds that securities regulation impliedly precluded application of the antitrust laws to the alleged conspiracy under Credit Suisse Securities (USA) v. Billing, 551 U.S. 264 (2007).

The Second Circuit in Mayor and City Council of Baltimore v. Citigroup, Nos. 10-0722, 10-0867, 2013-1 CCH Trade Cases ¶78,288 (2d Cir. March 5, 2013), affirmed the dismissal, albeit on alternate grounds. The appellate panel recapped the pleading standard set out in another 2007 Supreme Court decision, Bell Atlantic v. Twombly,
550 U.S. 544 (2007) and reaffirmed the now-settled principle that alleging parallel conduct without more is insufficient even at the pleading stage. The Second Circuit observed that Twombly's "prime concern" is to distinguish cases that assert a plausible antitrust conspiracy from those that "merely presume a conspiracy from parallel action."

The appellate panel reasoned that if courts "permit antitrust plaintiffs to overcome a motion to dismiss simply by alleging parallel conduct, we risk propelling defendants into expensive antitrust discovery on the basis of acts that could just as easily turn out to have been rational business behavior." The Second Circuit panel added that when a plaintiff alleges additional "plus factors" to bolster an assertion of parallel conduct, those factors must be examined to evaluate whether they lead to an inference of conspiracy.

The court determined that the alleged withdrawal from the failing auction rate securities market "in a virtually simultaneous manner" made "perfect business sense" and did not plausibly suggest that the parallel conduct resulted from an agreement. The court noted it was to be expected that once a critical mass of auctions failed, the

Page 19 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
financial institutions would exit the market very quickly based on independent decisions informed by an awareness and anticipation of similar actions by their rivals.

The decision follows several opinions by the Second Circuit applying Twombly's pleading standards to antitrust complaints, yet notably absent from the decision is any discussion of the Second Circuit's Anderson News v. American Media opinion (discussed in the April 19, 2012, column) and its admonition that at the pleading stage courts should not subject claims to a probability test or choose among plausible alternatives, as long as the alleged claim is plausible.
Private Equity Buyouts

In Dahl v. Bain Capital Partners, 07-Civ-12388 (D. Mass. March 13, 2013), former shareholders of public companies that were taken private alleged that private equity firms and an investment bank conspired to allocate the market for the acquisition of public companies by way of leveraged buyouts (LBOs) in order to dampen competition and avoid paying higher prices to shareholders. The district court denied the defendants motions for summary judgment after narrowing the claims and dismissing the investment bank defendant, JP Morgan Chase
& Co., from the suit. The court clarified that to survive summary judgment plaintiffs must show evidence that is not only consistent with conspiracy, but also tends to exclude the possibility of independent action.

The court noted that much of the alleged conduct did not support the assertion of an overarching conspiracy: For one, joint bidding and forming consortiums at auctions are common and appropriate practices in the industry. In addition, the invitation of a losing bidder to join a consortium does not, on its own, suggest the existence of an overarching conspiracy to avoid competition for the acquisition of public companies. Furthermore, the court stated that an occasional acknowledgement that joint bidding reduces competition and communications among defendants, in an industry with many legitimate, close relationships, do not indicate an industry-wide conspiracy. And, the court added, private equity funds could have instituted policies of not competing with the same ferocity
as in the past to avoid inviting retaliation from other funds independently, without any collusion.

However, the court determined that the case may proceed on the theory of an alleged overarching agreement not to "jump" announced proprietary deals—that is, a pact not to submit a superior offer during a "go shop" period
after the announcement of an acquisition that was not the result of an auction process. The court noted that taken together, statements like "no one in private equity ever jumps an announced deal" and the fact that none of the relevant deals at issue in the suit were "jumped," among other things, tended to exclude the possibility of independent action.

The court also allowed a narrowly tailored claim that there was an agreement to cease competing to acquire HCA to proceed to trial. The court stated that an email exchange among executives at one fund suggested assent to another fund's request that the industry "step down" on HCA.

The court granted JP Morgan's motion for summary judgment because the evidence did not establish that it was in the business of bidding to acquire public companies or otherwise indicate participation in an overarching conspiracy.
In the decision, the court criticized plaintiffs for their reluctance to narrow their claims of an overarching
market-wide conspiracy, which made the case "unnecessarily complex and nearly warranted its dismissal," and
permitted the defendants to renew their summary judgment motions to address the more limited claims.
Application of State Law
The Ninth Circuit ruled that applying California antitrust law to indirect purchasers' claims that they bought
price-fixed goods outside the state was not unconstitutional because the conspiratorial conduct was sufficiently
connected to California and not "slight and casual."

Plaintiffs AT&T and other sellers of cellular phones alleged that they paid artificially inflated prices for mobile handsets because the defendants fixed the prices of liquid crystal display (LCD) panels contained in handsets. The plaintiffs brought claims under California's Cartwright Act and sought recovery for overcharges. The district court dismissed the suit since the plaintiffs purchased the handsets outside of California and the Due Process clause of the U.S. Constitution prohibits invoking a state's laws, unless the "occurrence or transaction giving rise to the litigation" took place in the state.

The Ninth Circuit reversed on the grounds that due process prevents application of a state's substantive law only when there is no significant contact or aggregation of contacts with the state. The appellate court stated that


Page 20 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
alleged agreements and conspiracies, not just the sale of goods, are relevant occurrences or transactions for determining contacts in a price fixing case.
AT&T Mobility v. AU Optronics, No. 11-16188, 2013-1 CCH Trade Cases ¶78,262 (9th Cir. Feb. 14, 2013) Airline Merger
The European Commission blocked Ryanair's proposed acquisition of Aer Lingus because combination of the two leading airlines operating from Ireland would harm consumers by giving the merged firm a monopoly or dominant position on 46 routes where the airlines currently compete.

The commission rejected Ryanair's proposed remedies to remove competitive concerns. First, Ryanair proposed divestiture to Flybe, a regional discount airline, of 43 routes where Aer Lingus and Ryanair overlap, for a minimum of three years. The commission determined that this divestiture would not sufficiently restore competition because Flybe lacked the experience, business model, and resources to develop itself into a viable competitive force with operations lasting beyond the three-year period.

Second, Ryanair proposed leasing its London landing slots on three Irish routes to IAG/British Airways for a period of at least three years. The commission found this remedy inadequate because the merged entity would remain dominant on these routes and IAG would likely exit these routes or scale back operations after three years.
This is the third time since 2007 that Ryanair has tried unsuccessfully to obtain approval to acquire Aer Lingus. "Merger: Commission prohibits Ryanair's proposed takeover of Aer Lingus," IP/13/167 (Feb. 27, 2013) Government Settlements
The Department of Justice charged two energy companies, SGI Interests and Gunnison Energy Corporation, with entering into an unlawful noncompete agreement related to an auction for four leases to explore for natural gas in Western Colorado. According to the complaint, the companies agreed that SGI alone would bid at the U.S.
Bureau of Land Management auction and subsequently assign a 50 percent license to Gunnison for any acquired leases, thereby depriving the United States of the benefit of competition.

The noncompete agreement came to the attention of the government through a qui tam action—a lawsuit brought by a private citizen against another party alleged to have defrauded the government and which entitles the
plaintiff to a percentage of the government's recovery.
The district court rejected the original settlement, which required the defendant companies to pay a total of
$550,000 to settle both the antitrust and qui tam actions, as against the public interest because the settlement
amount was for "nothing more than the nuisance value of this litigation." The court also stated that settlement of
the qui tam action "must be separate and apart" from that of the antitrust suit since they protect different interests.

The revised settlement, still subject to the court's approval, requires the defendants to pay $550,000 for the antitrust claims. The department separately settled the qui tam suit for approximately $450,000.

United States v. SG Interests I, 2012-2 CCH Trade Cases ¶78,180 (D. Colo. Dec. 12, 2012); see also Department of Justice court filings (March 6, 2013)
Private Settlements

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit vacated an antitrust class action settlement that included cy pres distributions because the district court lacked a factual basis to determine whether the settlement was fair to the class when it approved the settlement without considering the amount to be distributed directly to the class compared to cy pres beneficiaries.

The cy pres doctrine permits the distribution of unclaimed settlement funds to a charitable purpose that approximates the interests pursued by the class. Direct distributions to the class are preferred over distributions to cy pres recipients because the latter imperfectly serve the purpose of distributions: to directly compensate class members for their injuries.

Consumers had brought a class action against retailers and manufacturers of baby products for resale price maintenance. The district court approved a $35 million settlement, which would distribute $14 million to counsel,
$3 million to class members, and $18.5 million to cy pres recipients. An unnamed member of the class challenged
Page 21 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
the settlement on the grounds that the district court failed in its oversight responsibility by approving the distribution of funds to a third party without first fully compensating the class.

The Third Circuit concluded that the district court did not consider the degree of benefit to the class when approving the settlement of the baby product class action. First, the district court was not aware that the class would receive only $3 million while cy pres recipients would receive $18.5 million, and did not affirmatively seek this information. Second, the circuit noted that most class members would only receive $5 and suggested that the parties may want to increase the payment or lower the evidentiary bar to the higher award to ensure that the class obtains a greater direct benefit.

The Third Circuit also vacated the $14 million attorney fee award and stated that courts have discretion to decrease a fee award in a settlement with cy pres distributions to ensure that the award adequately prioritizes direct distributions to the class. The appellate court, however, refused to adopt a rule requiring courts to discount fees in settlements with cy pres distributions.

Finally, the appellate panel concluded that the notice provided to class members did not violate due process by not naming the cy pres recipients because class members were aware of cy pres distributions and those with a property interest in the unclaimed funds could appeal the selection of a cy pres recipient.
In re Baby Products Antitrust Litigation, Nos. 12-1165, 12-1166 & 12-1167, 2013-1 CCH Trade Cases 78,273 (3d
Cir. Feb. 19, 2013)
Document NYLJ000020130322e93m0000d

Search Summary
Text                                ryanair and "aer lingus" and (eu or ec or europ*) Date                                27/01/2013 to 27/03/2013
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       English
Results Found                317
Timestamp                      19 May 2019 8:35























Page 22 of 22 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
