




Schneider reorganises ahead of split with Legrand . ......................................................................................................2
( EU ) EU /COMPETITION - Monti responds to French criticism. ...................................................................................3


























































Page 1 of 3 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


Schneider  reorganises ahead of split with Legrand.
130 words
7 November 2001
18:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited
PARIS, Nov 7 (Reuters) -  Schneider  Electric SA said on Wednesday it would reorganise its business after its takeover of peer  Legrand SA was unexpectedly overruled by the  European Commission.

The Paris-based maker of plugs, switches and factory control equipment appointed Jean-Paul Saas, a  Schneider veteran of 22 years standing, to lead a new project management unit which will handle the separation from Legrand, Schneider  said in a statement.

On October 10, the Commission scuppered Schneider's acquisition of Legrand on concern the new company would smother competition in the French and Italian markets.

The decision was a blow for Schneider, which had already secured 98 percent of Legrand's shares and will probably have to resell them at a heavy discount.
Document lba0000020011107dxb700vt3




































Page 2 of 3 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


(EU) EU/COMPETITION - Monti responds to French criticism.
417 words
10 November 2001
Agence Europe
AGEU
English
(c) 2001 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .
Brussels, 09/11/2001 (Agence  Europe) - The French daily Le Monde published on 8 November a response from Competition Commissioner Mario Monti, who plans to clarify validity of the  European Commission's decisions concerning recent merger operations. The successive vetoes to the concentration between the French companies Schneider  and Legrand as well as the acquisition of Sidel (France) by Tetra-Laval (Switzerland) caused a polemic, in France, about the way Mr Monti's services carried out appraisal of the dossiers. Mr Monti considers above all that the Commission's decisions were presented to the public in a "biased way" that made one forget
the "countless approvals" given to other French companies. Welcoming the "vitality" of the large French companies, Mr Monti recognises the ability of French business leaders to cooperate effectively with the Commission "even in cases which were problematical".

He does remark, however, that it was pointless to make any political influence intervene as it is our duty, he said, to be strictly insensitive to this. He also responded to the accusation that, in some cases, the Commission adopts a somewhat narrow vision of economic reality. Mr Monti considers the debate is "welcome" as long as it is based on sound arguments. Finally, he refutes the accusation that the Commission automatically bans all mergers between companies from one and the same Member State, and gives the example of TotalFina/Elf whose merger was authorised through certain concessions. Given the "particularly delicate exercise" of identifying remedies for competition problems, Mr Monti invites companies to fully cooperate with the Commission, "without waiting until the last weeks of the procedure". If the Commission makes a mistake ("and the Commission cannot be entirely free of mistakes", he admits), the jurisdictional control by the Court of Justice in Luxembourg allows the damage
to be repaired with the cancellation of any decision taken by the European Executive. We recall that Le Monde had published in its columns a virulent response by Schneider President Henri Lachmann, who, after the European veto on the merger of his company with Legrand, had declared: "We have been ill-treated (...). The procedure is not transparent and is like a denial of justice. It is the same body that not only carries out the investigation, but also examines the remedies and takes a decision". He added moreover that "the Commission refuses the appearance of large groups and even rejects the idea of apprehending Europe to give preference to national markets".
Document ageu000020011112dxba0000j

Search Summary
Text                                Schneider and Legrand and (eu or ec or europ*) Date                                10/09/2001 to 10/11/2001
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       English
Results Found                102
Timestamp                      19 May 2019 9:20



Page 3 of 3 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
