




EU SET TO BAN BLOKKER 'S TOYS "R " US DUTCH BUY. ........................................................................................2
EU set to ban Blokker 's Toys "R " Us Dutch buy............................................................................................................3
EU COMPETITION AUTHORITIES TO BLOCK TOY RETAILING TAKEOEVER..........................................................4
EU bans Blokker buy of Toys 'R ' Us Netherlands. .........................................................................................................5
EU Regulators Block Sale Of Toys 'R ' Us Stores In Netherlands ..................................................................................6
COMMISSION - INFRINGEMENTS, COMPETITION, PUBLIC PROCUREMENT.........................................................7
EU Commission Is Ready To Approve Blokker Deal ......................................................................................................8
EU /CONCURRENCE - THE TOY MARKET. .................................................................................................................9 bernahme untersagt Planned takeover by Blokker is prohibited by European Commission.........................................10












































Page 1 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


EU SET TO BAN BLOKKER'S TOYS "R" US DUTCH BUY.
56 words
9 June 1997
16:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1997 Reuters Limited
BRUSSELS, June 9 (Reuter) - The European Commission's competition service has proposed blocking the acquisition by Dutch retailer  Blokker  of Toys "R" Us' Netherlands' operations, suggesting instead that it take control of only part of it,  EU sources said on Monday.
(c) Reuters Limited 1997
Document lba0000020040130dt69019v2












































Page 2 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


EU set to ban Blokker's Toys "R" Us Dutch buy.
362 words
9 June 1997
17:04
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1997 Reuters Limited
BRUSSELS, June 9 (Reuter) - The European Commission's competition service has proposed blocking the acquisition by Dutch retailer  Blokker  of Toys "R" Us' Netherlands' operations, suggesting instead that it take control of only part of it,  EU sources said on Monday.
"There is a draft decision to forbid the alliance but with a way-out proposal," a European antitrust source said. "The proposal is about the amount of control Blokker will have in Toys "R" Us," the source added.
Blokker and Toys "R" Us, whose Dutch operations have never been profitable, had told the Commission that there was no alternative to the deal other than closing down the nine mega stores owned by the American toy giant, sources close to the investigation said.
But the diplomat said that other buyers had apparently been identified now.

In a rare step, the Dutch government asked the Commission in January to investigate the takeover, failing which the EU would have no jurisdiction.

The move was widely seen as indicating Dutch problems with the transaction which could not be dealt with nationally because the country has yet to implement rules on probing mergers and acquisitions.

The draft decision, prepared by the Commission's merger task force, will be submitted to an advisory committee of competition experts from the EU's 15 states on Tuesday, another EU source said.
Blokker Holding BV agreed almost a year ago to buy the Dutch operations of the world's largest toy retailer after
Toys "R" Us accumulated losses locally due largely to a lack of understanding of the small but rich market.

The terms of the sale remain undisclosed, but the agreement foresees that Blokker will have a franchise to operate six of the nine Toys "R" Us mega-stores. The companies have told the Commission that the three left would be closed down after the deal.
Blokker currently has about 60 percent of the Dutch toy market through its specialised shops Bart Smit and
Intertoys and its household articles shops, the sources said.
The Commission has until July 3 to give a final ruling. (c) Reuters Limited 1997
Document lba0000020011002dt6904c5z












Page 3 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


EU COMPETITION AUTHORITIES TO BLOCK TOY RETAILING TAKEOEVER.
403 words
25 June 1997
European Report
EURREP
English
(c) 1997 European Report.
As European Report went to press on June 24, the European Commission was expected to announce at its weekly session on June 26 its formal disapproval of the acquisition of the Toys "R" Us business in the Netherlands by Dutch retail chain  Blokker.  Following an in-depth inquiry lasting four months, the  Commission's Merger Task Force has concluded that the deal would strengthen a dominant market position to the detriment of free and fair competition and is thus incompatible with common market rules. Since  Blokker  has been actually operating the chain of nine toy "megastores" originally opened by leading international toy retailer  Toys "R" Us since February of this year, the Commission will make a divestiture order so as to "restore effective competition" within the market under the terms of the EU 1989 Merger Regulation.

Negotiations have already taken place with company management and a solution worked out whereby Blokker will transfer all assets, rights and obligations in Toys "R" Us to a subsidiary company, Speelhorn, a controlling stake of which must then be sold off to a third party, with Toys "R" Us re-purchasing 20% of the shares and Blokker itself retaining no more than a 20% share.

Officials at the Commission's Directorate-General for Competition Policy (DG IV) were called in to scrutinise the deal for a second time early in 1997 at the request of the Dutch Government, after Blokker announced its plans to take over all assets, fixtures, inventory and store personnel, plus use of the brand name of the Toys "R" Us business in the Netherlands. Given the almost exclusively national nature of toy retailing structures in the EU Member States, the "market" used for competition analysis by the Commission experts was defined as the range of all specialist toy shops within the Netherlands - which account for over 80% of all toys sold in the country. Blokker is by far the market leader here, holding around 60% of the defined market, where the nearest rival accounts for only some 20% of sales. The competition experts stressed the difficulties for new entrants attempting to break into the Dutch toy market - Early Learning Centre has already been absorbed by Dutch operators - and concluded that the extra 4% market share acquired through the Toys "R" Us takeover would imply an
unwarranted reinforcement of Blokker's dominance.
(c) European Report 1997.
Document eurrep0020011001dt6p003x5





















Page 4 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


EU bans Blokker  buy of Toys 'R' Us Netherlands.
306 words
26 June 1997
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1997 Reuters Limited
BRUSSELS, June 26 (Reuter) - The European Commission said on Thursday that the acquisition by Dutch toy retailer Blokker  Holding BV of the operations of Toys 'R' Us in the Netherlands would strengthen  Blokker's dominant position and ordered it to scrap the deal.
"Blokker  has been required to divest the  Toys 'R' Us stores to an independent third party unconnected to the
Blokker  group," it said in a statement.
The Commission said this would "optimise the possibilities for the Toys 'R' Us stores to be sold to a third party." Blokker agreed almost a year ago to buy the Dutch operations of the U.S. toy giant after the company's losses
piled up in the small but lucrative Dutch market.

The Commission's decision had been on the cards ever since the Dutch government asked it to investigate the transaction, making little secret that it had serious concerns that the deal would harm competition on the Dutch toy market.

In the absence of this request the Commission would have had no jurisdiction since the operation does not meet the turnover thresholds set in the EU's merger control law.

Blokker is one of the major retail operators in the Netherlands. It has a very strong position in the toy market through its Bart Smit and Intertoys stores and household goods outlets.
"(Blokker) is almost four times bigger than (its) nearest competitor," the Commission said.

The Commission agreed that Blokker and Toys 'R' Us may each retain up to 20 percent in Toys' Dutch operations for a limited period of time "to ensure its development into a viable company".

The Commission can block or impose strict conditions to mergers and acquisitions which are found to affect fair competition in the 15-nation bloc.
(c) Reuters Limited 1997
Document lba0000020011002dt6q03gco


















Page 5 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


EU Regulators Block Sale Of Toys 'R' Us Stores In Netherlands
254 words
27 June 1997
15:44
Dow Jones Online News
DJON
English
(Copyright (c) 1997, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
BRUSSELS -(Dow Jones)- The acquisition of nine Toys 'R' Us stores in the Netherlands by  Blokker  Holding NV was rejected Friday by the European Union Commission on the grounds that it gives the Dutch retailer a dominant share of the country's toy market.

The commission, which oversees antitrust matters in the 15-national trade bloc, said it ordered  Blokker,  a privately held company, to divest the stores it bought from  Toys 'R' Us BV in February "to an independent third party." Terms of the deal were never disclosed.

Toys 'R' US BV is a wholly-owned unit of Toys 'R' Us Inc., one of the world's biggest toy retailers. The Dutch unit began operations in 1993. Blokker operates 340 toy stores at its Bart Smit and Intertoys chains in the Netherlands, and more than 1,000 other retail stores in Europe.

Blokker agreed last year to buy the U.S. retailer's Dutch operations after Toys 'R' Us incurred losses at the nine megastores. The deal would have seen Blokker operate six of the nine Toys 'R' Us stores, with the other three being shut.
The Commission investigation, done at the request of the Dutch government, found that Blokker's
already-substantial toy retail network has given it a "gatekeeper" position vis-a-vis suppliers, and that the addition
of the Toys 'R' Us properties would only strengthen this position.
Copyright (c) 1997 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Document djon000020011006dt6r00g3g


























Page 6 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


COMMISSION - INFRINGEMENTS, COMPETITION, PUBLIC PROCUREMENT.
117 words
27 June 1997
Agence Europe
AGEU
English
(c) 1997 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .
Brussels, 26/06/1997 (Agence Europe) - The  Commission:
- takes action at the Court of Justice against France, which did not observe  EU rules regarding public
procurement for the construction of the stadium near Paris, where the final of the world cup in football will be held
in 1998; - declares illegal the advertising monopoly granted by the Flemish region in Belgium to the VTM
television channel and denounces the concentration between  Toys R and Blokker  on the Dutch toy market; -
begins infringement procedure (first phase) against Spain for the law on digital TV, which, says the  Commission,
would be incompatible with Community directives.
Not Available for Re-dissemination. (c) Agence EUROPE, Brussels 1997. Document ageu000020010928dt6r000q2





































Page 7 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


Corporate News
EU Commission Is Ready To Approve  Blokker  Deal
A Wall Street Journal Europe Roundup
256 words
27 June 1997
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
3
English
(Copyright (c) 1997, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)
BRUSSELS -- The European  Commission will give the green light for  Blokker  Holding BV to take over the Dutch operations of  Toys R Us Inc., despite initial competition concerns,  EU officials said.
"We're going to clear it but with conditions," an  EU official, who asked not to be named, told AP-Dow Jones. The EU opened a detailed inquiry into the deal last February because of fears that Blokker would use the
acquisition to strengthen its already significant market position in the Netherlands. Since then, however, the
companies have "suggested some remedies," the EU official said. They didn't specify whether the changes to the
takeover plan included divesting certain stores or products lines.

Blokker is a major retail chain in the Netherlands that sells household goods and other products as well as toys. It sells toys through its Bart Smit and Intertoys chain of specialized retail shops.

Toys R Us's wholly owned Dutch unit, Toys R Us Netherlands, began operations in 1993 and runs nine megastores in the Netherlands.

Blokker agreed almost a year ago to buy the Dutch operations of Toys R Us after the giant U.S. toy retailer incurred losses locally. The terms of the sale remain undisclosed, but the agreement foresees that Blokker will have a franchise to operate six of the nine Toys "R" Us megastores. The companies have told the commission that the three left would be closed down after the deal.
Document wsje000020011009dt6r007g6


























Page 8 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


EU/CONCURRENCE - THE TOY MARKET.
577 words
3 July 1997
Agence Europe
AGEU
English
(c) 1997 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .
IN ORDER TO RESTORE EFFECTIVE COMPETITION ON THE TOY MARKET IN THE NETHERLANDS,
BLOKKER MUST SELL ITS INTERESTS IN  TOYS"R"US.

Brussels, 02/07/1997 (Agence Europe) - As briefly indicated, the European  Commission has denounced the Toys"R"Us/Blokker concentration because of the effect of dominance on the Dutch toy market. It has demanded that Blokker  sell to an independent third party all the shops in the chain that it acquired in February. This disinvestment ensures that effective competition is restored and gives Toy"R"Us the very best possibility of remaining present on the market in question, considers the  Commission at the end of an inquiry launched at the request of Dutch authorities under Article 22 of the  EC regulation on mergers.

If there had not been such a request, the Commission would not have intervened in this issue, in so far as the figures involved are below the thresholds beyond which Community control proceedings come into play. The transaction was not suspended during the investigation, which resulted in the declaration of incompatibility with the common market, together with an injunction for negotiated disengagement with the parties. The market in question was defined as being that of retail sales for various products in the Netherlands, including a large range of toys. Before the merger, Blokker already controlled a significant share of this market, through its subsidiaries Bart Smit and Intertoys, and through its own household-ware shops, a share which is nearly four times higher than that of its main rival. In addition, the Commission felt that the different formulas for retail sales operated by the Dutch group confer upon it a substantial advantage over its rivals and a strategic position towards suppliers
as far as access to the retail sales market is concerned. It now considers that the concentration has strengthened an already effective position of dominance, although it only involves a small increase of market share. The shops and the concept of Toys"R"Us, the Commission believes, have considerable potential in market terms above all if its comes within the framework of the Blokker group. Moreover, the conjunction of the respective formulas of the parties opens access by Blokker to the retail sales segment in large suburban stores, a segment where Toys"R"Us is currently the only shop operating. In order to remedy this situation, which is worrying from the competition point of view, it has been agreed that Blokker should, as soon as possible, seek someone to take
over the large part of Toys"R"Us shares. The buyer should be totally independent of the group, capable of giving it viable and active competition, as well as maintaining and developing the Toys"R"Us shops. The Commission agreed that the parties should keep a minority stake in the share capital of the toy chain up to 20% for each, in order to demonstrate their confidence in this concept and to ensure the development of a viable enterprise. In
time, Blokker should, however, give up its interests in the Toys"R"Us business, by selling to a third party an option for the acquisition of all its shares and by putting an end to its participation in the management councils of the toy retailer. Finally, this third party will, if it so wishes, be able to immediately repurchase all the Dutch Toys"R"Us activities.
Not Available for Re-dissemination. (c) Agence EUROPE, Brussels 1997. Document ageu000020010928dt73000x5










Page 9 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



bernahme untersagt Planned takeover by Blokker  is prohibited by European Commission
109 words
11 July 1997
Lebensmittel Zeitung
LBNZ
28
ISSN: 0342-9512
English
Copyright 1997 Information Access Company. All rights reserved.
In order to protect competition in the Dutch toy market, the European  Commission has prohibited the takeover of the Dutch business of  Toys "R" US, one of the worldwide leading toy retailers, by the Dutch retail group  Blokker. Blokker  has to sell its majority share in Dutch  Toys "R" US to a third party. The EUCommission allows both Blokker  and Toys "R" US to hold a 20% stake in the Dutch  Toys "R" US business but the new shareholder has
to be given the option to buy the rest of  Blokker's  shares after a transitional period.
Document lbnz000020011007dt7b0002u

Search Summary
Text                                Commission and (eu or ec or euro) and (blokker or "toys r") Date                                26/05/1997 to 26/07/1997
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                9
Timestamp                      18 May 2019 16:05


























Page 10 of 10 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
