




EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers .................................................................. 2
EU regulator hands out 116 million euros cartel fine for disc drive makers ............................................................. 3
UPDATE 1-EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers ............................................... 4
Asian technology firms, Philips hit with 116-million-euro cartel fine ......................................................................... 5
EU fines 8 optical disc suppliers 116 mln eur for cartel............................................................................................ 7
European Commission fines companies for disc drive cartel ................................................................................... 8
Daily News 21 / 10 / 2015 ........................................................................................................................................ 9
Antitrust: Commission fines suppliers of optical disc drives € 116 million for cartel ............................................... 13
Daily News 21 / 10 / 2015 ...................................................................................................................................... 16
Antitrust: Commission fines suppliers of optical disc drives € 116 million for cartel ............................................... 20
Hitachi Ltd - EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers - Reuters ............................ 23
Koninklijke Philips NV - EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers - Reuters .......... 24
Sony Corp - EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers - Reuters ............................ 25
Toshiba Corp - EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers - Reuters ....................... 26
EU Fines Sony , 4 Other Firms 116 M. Euros over Disc Drive Cartel .................................................................... 27
EU fines companies for colluding on disc drives deals .......................................................................................... 28
Europa- Antitrust: Commission fines suppliers of optical disc drives EUR 116 million for cartel ........................... 30 (AE) COMPETITION: €116 million in fines for supplies of optical disc drives ........................................................ 33
Disc drive makers colluded against Dell, HP , panel says ; European Commission fines eight firms over shared bid strategies. ......................................................................................................................................................... 34
Against disc drive 'cartelists' EU regulator takes action ......................................................................................... 35
Quanta Storage to be fined by EC ......................................................................................................................... 37
EU LEGAL TRENDS .............................................................................................................................................. 37






















Page 1 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers
WC          133 words
PD           21 October 2015
ET           11:00 AM
SN           Reuters News
SC           LBA
LA           English
CY           Copyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS, Oct 21 (Reuters) - The European Commission has handed out a 116 million euros ($131.73 million)  fine to producers of optical disc drives, having found them guilty of colluding on price.

TD
The Commission, which acts as the competition watchdog in the 28-member European Union, said the largest fine of 41.3 million euros was for a joint venture of Toshiba and Samsung, while Sony,
Hitachi-LG Data Storage and Quanta Storage were also  fined.

"The anticompetitive conduct subject to fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for optical disk drives for laptops and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP)," the Commission said in a statement.

RF           Released: 2015-10-21T10:00:01.000Z
CO          eucmm : European Commission
IN            i3454 : Personal Electronics | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | ielec : Consumer Electronics |
itech : Technology
NS           ginda : Independent Advisory Bodies | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | gcrim : Crime/Courts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE           eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe
IPD          Business
IPC          SERVICE:ABN
PUB        Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
AN           Document LBA0000020151021ebal009qn

















Page 2 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD           EU regulator hands out 116 million euros cartel fine for disc drive makers
WC          233 words
PD           21 October 2015
ET           12:42 PM
SN           Reuters News
SC           LBA
LA            English
CY           Copyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Commission has handed out a 116 million euros ($131.73 million) fine to producers of optical disc drives, having found them guilty of colluding on price.

The Commission, which acts as the competition watchdog in the 28-member European Union, said the largest  fine of 41.3 million euros was for a joint venture of Toshiba and Samsung Electronics, while Sony, Hitachi-LG Data Storage and Quanta Storage were also  fined.

TD
"The anticompetitive conduct subject to fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for optical disk drives for laptops and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP)," the Commission said in a statement.

Philips and its joint venture partner Lite-On were also found guilty but not  fined because they had alerted regulators to the  cartel, the Commission added.

"Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favorite pictures on a  disc. Keeping these markets competitive is important," European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said.

"Today's decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe," she continued.
(Reporting by Robert-Jan Bartunek; editing by Philip Blenkinsop)

RF           Released: 2015-10-21T10:42:58.000Z
CO           eucmm : European Commission | euruno : The European Union
IN            i3454 : Personal Electronics | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | ielec : Consumer Electronics
| itech : Technology
NS           ginda : Independent Advisory Bodies | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE           eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe
IPD          Business
IPC          SERVICE:OUSTCM
PUB         Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
AN           Document LBA0000020151021ebal00c9p






Page 3 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          UPDATE 1-EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers
WC          247 words
PD           21 October 2015
ET           12:39 PM
SN           Reuters News
SC           LBA
LA           English
CY           Copyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

LP
(Adds details from Commission on  cartel)

BRUSSELS, Oct 21 (Reuters) - The European Commission has handed out a 116 million euros ($131.73 million)  fine to producers of optical disc drives, having found them guilty of colluding on price.

TD
The Commission, which acts as the competition watchdog in the 28-member European Union, said the largest fine of 41.3 million euros was for a joint venture of Toshiba and Samsung Electronics, while Sony, Hitachi-LG Data Storage and Quanta Storage were also  fined.

"The anticompetitive conduct subject to fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for optical disk drives for laptops and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP)," the Commission said in a statement.

Philips and its joint venture partner Lite-On were also found guilty but not  fined because they had alerted regulators to the  cartel, the Commission added.

"Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a  disc. Keeping these markets competitive is important," European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said.

"Today's decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe," she continued. ($1 = 0.8806 euros) (Reporting by Robert-Jan Bartunek; editing by Philip Blenkinsop)

RF           Released: 2015-10-21T11:39:12.000Z
IN            i3454 : Personal Electronics | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | ielec : Consumer Electronics |
itech : Technology
NS           ginda : Independent Advisory Bodies | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | gcrim : Crime/Courts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE           eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe
IPD          Business
IPC          SERVICE:N
PUB        Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
AN           Document LBA0000020151021ebal00c1m






Page 4 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD     Asian technology firms, Philips  hit with 116-million-euro cartel fine
WC    460 words
PD     21 October 2015
ET      03:19 PM
SN     dpa International Service in English
SC     DPAEN
LA      English
CY     Copyright 2015. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur

LP
Brussels (dpa) - Eight Asian and European technology firms, including giants such as Sony and Philips, were hit with 116 million euros (132 million dollars) in EU  fines on Wednesday for having participated in an illegal cartel on the market for optical  disc drives.

The drives are used in computers, video game consoles and other devices to read data kept on discs such as CDs or DVDs.

TD
"Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a  disc," EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager noted in a statement. "Keeping these markets competitive is important."

The companies in the  cartel, which existed from 2004 to 2008, shared commercially sensitive information and worked to limit "aggressive competition" in tenders issued by US computing giants Dell and HP for
the acquisition of optical  disc drives, the European Commission said.

The European Union's executive is in charge of enforcing the strict competition rules in the 28-country bloc.

Although the illegal contacts took place in Asia and the United States, the  disc drives in question were also sold in Europe, Vestager said.

"The message to cartelists is clear: we will investigate and  fine anti-competitive behavior and practices wherever in the world if it harms European consumers," she added.

The companies involved were "perfectly aware" that their behaviour was illegal, the commissioner told journalists in Brussels.

"They took a lot of measures to avoid detection," Vestager said. "Apart from using generic names and abbreviations in their correspondence, they also met in car parks and in cinemas."
"And no, I do not know what film they saw," she quipped.

The Netherlands-based Philips and its Taiwanese partner Lite-On escaped  fines totalling 63.9 million euros by blowing the whistle on the  cartel.

The ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology joint venture in Japan was hit with the largest penalty at 41.3 million euros, followed by a 37.1-million-euro  fine for the Hitachi-LG Data Storage joint venture in Japan and South Korea. The latter was granted a 50-per-cent reduction on its  fine because it cooperated with the commission.

Japan's Sony and its now-defunct subsidiary Sony Optiarc, meanwhile, were hit with  fines of 21 million euros and 9.8 million euros respectively. The smallest penalty of 7.1 million euros was levied against Taiwan-based Quanta Storage.

The fines were calculated based on a given company's level of involvement in the  cartel and its sales of concerned products in Europe. The commission had been investigating the  cartel since 2009.
# Notebook



Page 5 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
## Internet links - [Commission press release](http://dpaq.de/kdz4y) - [Video of Vestager remarks](http://dpaq.de/eOXkI)

RE     brus : Brussels | belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD    business
PUB   dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH
AN     Document DPAEN00020151021ebal0058x





























































Page 6 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       EU fines 8 optical  disc suppliers 116 mln eur for cartel
WC      309 words
PD       21 October 2015
ET       04:14 PM
SN       24 Ore Radiocor-Newswire International Edition
SC       SOLRADIN
LA       English
CY       © Copyright Il Sole 24 Ore- Tutti i diritti riservati.

LP
Philips, Lite-on immune for revealing cartel existence (Il Sole 24 Ore Radiocor) - Brussels , 21 Oct - The
European Commission said it has fined eight optical  disc drive suppliers a total of 116 million euros
for having coordinated their behaviour in relation to procurement tenders organised by two computer
manufacturers, in breach of European Union antitrust rules.

TD
Eight suppliers engaged in the illegal practices covered by this decision, namely Philips, Lite-On, their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions, Hitachi-LG Data Storage, ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology, Sony, Sony Optiarc and Quanta Storage, the commission said. ODDs read or record data stored on optical disks, such as CDs, DVDs or Blu-ray.They are used for instance in personal computers, CD and DVD players and video game consoles Philips, Lite-On and their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions received full immunity from  fines as they were the first to reveal the existence of the cartel, whose members agreed to collude in procurement tenders for ODDs for laptops and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP).

The commission's investigation revealed that between June 2004 and November 2008, the companies participating in the  cartel communicated to each other their intentions regarding bidding strategies, shared the results of procurement tenders and exchanged other commercially sensitive information concerning ODDs used in laptops and desktops. "They organised a network of parallel bilateral contacts that pursued a single plan to avoid aggressive competition in procurement tenders organised by Dell and HP," the commission said. "The companies were aware that their behaviour was illegal and tried to conceal their contacts and to evade detection of their arrangements. For example, they avoided naming the competitors concerned in their internal correspondence but used abbreviations or generic names," it said.
A24-Hob

CO      eucmm : European Commission | euruno : The European Union | pcltd : Dell Inc

IN        i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | itech : Technology
NS       c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
IPD      ENG
PUB    Il Sole 24 Ore SpA
AN       Document SOLRADIN20151021ebal00439










Page 7 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD           European Commissionfines companies for disc drive cartel
WC          148 words
PD           21 October 2015
SN           U-Wire SC           UWIR LA           English
CY           © 2015, M2 Communications. All rights reserved.

LP
Northern Illinois University ; Dekalb, IL - from ap
By

TD
BRUSSELS — The European Commission has slapped fines totaling 116 million euros ($132 million) on eight companies involved in a cartel linked to the supply of optical  disc drives to computer companies Dell and Hewlett Packard.

The commission said Wednesday the companies illicitly colluded "to avoid aggressive competition in procurement tenders organized by Dell and HP."

The commission says some company representatives — knowing their actions were illegal — met in parking lots and movie theaters to discuss tender details for supplying products such as  CD and DVD drives.

Among companies fined were Sony, ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology and Hitachi-LG Data Storage. Philips and Lite-On also were  fined, but had the punishments waived because they were first to reveal the existence of the  cartel.
((Distributed for UWIRE via M2 Communications  www.m2.com))

CO          eucmm : European Commission | pcltd : Dell Inc

IN            i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | itech : Technology
NS           guni : University/College | gcat : Political/General News | gedu : Education
RE           usa : United States | usil : Illinois | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S.
PUB        Normans Media Ltd
AN           Document UWIR000020151021ebal00184


















Page 8 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD    Daily News 21 / 10 / 2015
WC    2,563 words
PD     21 October 2015
SN     NewsKitchen.eu
SC     NKITEN
LA     English
CY     Copyright 2015. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.

LP
MIL OSI - Source:  European Commission - Press Release/Statement
Headline: Daily News 21 / 10 / 2015

TD
Completing Europe's Economic and Monetary Union: Commission takes concrete steps to strengthen
EMU

Following the presentation of the “Five Presidents' Report" by the Presidents of the Commission, the Euro Summit, the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank and the European Parliament, the Commission launched Stage 1 (“Deepening by doing") of the process of completing EMU on  1 July 2015. It follows up today with concrete measures to begin the implementation of the ambitious plan to deepen EMU. The package of measures adopted by the College of Commissioners entails a revised approach to the European Semester, including through enhanced democratic dialogue and further improved economic governance, such as the introduction of national Competitiveness Boards and an advisory European
Fiscal Board; a more unified representation of the euro area in international financial institutions, especially the IMF. It also specifies the steps towards completing the Banking Union, notably via a European Deposit Insurance Guarantee Scheme and measures to further reduce risk in the banking system. Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President for the Euro and Social Dialogue, said: “Europe's Economic and Monetary Union needs strong foundations, not least to be more resilient to future shocks and withstand the global challenges ahead of us. Today, we propose tangible steps towards improving the EU's economic governance rules, which were last strengthened in the immediate aftermath of the crisis. We have the rules, we need to use them better. Looking ahead, we will have to use the next two years to shape consensus for more far-reaching changes that will be needed to complete our Economic and Monetary Union." Commissioner Pierre Moscovici, responsible for Economic and Financial Affairs, Taxation and Customs, said: “Today's package is about restarting economic and social convergence in our currency union. The next phase will be about political convergence and democratic renewal." The full press release, Q&A, factsheets and all relevant documents are available  here. (For more information: Annika Breidthardt - Tel.: +32 229 56153; Annikky Lamp - Tel.: +32 229 56151)
Calabria: €1.78 billion of EU Cohesion funds for 2014-2020

The European Commission adopted yesterday the 2014-2020 Operational Programme for the Italian region of Calabria, worth €2.37 billion, with €1.78 billion from the  European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund. The programme focuses on three priorities: boosting jobs and growth in the region, preserving the environment and promoting social and professional inclusion. Corina Crețu, Commissioner for Regional Policy, said: “This programme will enable Calabria to fully capitalize on its strengths and boost the competitiveness of its economy. I am very proud of the solid investment package
we adopted." Marianne Thyssen, Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs, Skills and Labour Mobility, added: “The ESF intervention in Calabria will focus on tackling unemployment, in particular of young and long-term unemployed, and improving skill levels. 20% of the resources will be dedicated to the fight against poverty and to social inclusion of the most vulnerable people." More information on  Cohesion
Policy in Italy and on Regional Policy is available online. (For more information: Jakub Adamowicz - Tel.:
+32 229 50595; Sophie Dupin de Saint-Cyr - Tel.: +32 229 56169)
Over €283 million of EU funds for inclusive growth in Italy

The Commission adopted yesterday the 2014-2020 National Operational Programme “Legalità", worth over €377.6 million, with €283 million coming from the  European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund. The programme will promote a more modern and transparent public administration and foster social inclusion for legal migrants, asylum seekers and vulnerable groups in Italy's less

Page 9 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
developed regions. Commissioner for Regional Policy Corina Creţu said: “This programme contributes to addressing the refugee crisis, one of the biggest challenges we ever had to address as a Union. Investments under this programme will help legal migrants, asylum seekers and vulnerable groups find their place in society, by improving their social and professional inclusion." Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs, Skills and Labour Mobility Marianne Thyssen said: “The European Social Fund helps to improve the lives of millions of people in Europe each year and is an indispensable tool in helping them
find better jobs. I have made clear already several weeks ago that we need to use EU funds better to respond to the refugee crisis. The programme adopted today will do exactly that and help to integrate and support refugees and other vulnerable groups." The descriptions of the 2014-2020 programmes are available on Commissioner Crețu‘s webpage and on the Inforegio website(For more information: Jakub Adamowicz - Tel.: +32 229 50595; Sophie Dupin de Saint-Cyr - Tel.: +32 229 56169)
EU invests €100 million to boost transnational cooperation in the Adriatic-Ionian region

The European Commission adopted yesterday the new  transnational cooperation programme for the Adriatic-Ionian region, worth €118 million, with nearly €100 million from the  European Regional Development Fund and from the  Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. The Programme will support the implementation of the  European Union Strategy for the Adriatic-Ionian region by enhancing economic, social, and territorial cohesion, preserving the environment and improving connectivity. The programme involves four EU countries - Greece, Croatia, Italy and Slovenia - with the participation of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia. The descriptions of the 2014-2020 programmes are available on Commissioner Crețu's webpage and on the Inforegio website. (For more information: Jakub Adamowicz - Tel.: +32 229 50595; Sophie Dupin de Saint-Cyr - Tel.: +32 229 56169)
EU announces another €60 million in support for Somali refugees

Today, High Representative / Vice President Federica Mogherini and the Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development, Neven Mimica, will announce €60 million to support Somali refugees and displaced persons in Somalia and Kenya. This announcement will be made during a Ministerial Pledging Conference on Somali Refugees taking place in Brussels. Prior to the conference, High Representative / Vice President, Federica Mogherini, said: “When it comes to migration, European and African countries work together. That's why dialogue is a key aspect of the EU's external policy on migration. I've recently travelled to Niger and Ethiopia to launch High Level Dialogues with these key countries. Today's event brings key partners together to discuss how to join efforts to give Somali refugees and displaced persons a better future." Commissioner Mimica commented: “The EU stands ready to further build on its
long-standing partnership with the Horn of Africa and to give €60 million to support the Somali refugees in the neighbouring countries. There can be no real peace building, state building or development without a durable solution for the Somali refugees. They account for almost 20% of the Somali population." A  press release and a factsheet are available. Information on the total amounts pledged during the conference will be made available here at the end of the conference. (For more information: Alexandre Polack - Tel.: +32
229 90677; Sharon Zarb - Tel.: + 32 229 92256)
Refugee crisis: meeting of First Vice President Timmermans with a delegation from the “For 1000 lives: Be
Human" appeal

Yesterday First Vice-President Timmermans received representatives of the 5,500 European film professionals who signed the appeal “For 1000 lives: Be Human“. The delegation included directors Michel Hazanavicius (The Artist) and Laurent Cantet (Entre les Murs) director and actress Valeria Bruni Tedeschi, actress Hanna Schygulla and actor Andrzej Chyra. The delegation appealed to the European
Union to respond to the refugee crisis by acting jointly, in solidarity, and with humanity, in accordance with the EU’s founding values. First Vice-President Timmermans  welcomed the initiative and said: “We need to continue to work hard to put solutions in place which are both humane and effective. In order to break the logic of fear which has become so widespread in our societies - the fear of the other, of what the future holds - we also need people in civil society who stand up for humanist values". Michel Hazanavicius said: “It is only by being political and humane that Europe can hope to fend off the dangers of populism that threaten democracy. Silence is the first ally of populism". (For more information: Natasha Bertaud - Tel.:
+32 229 67456; Tim McPhie - Tel.: +32 229 58602)

Commission decides selective tax advantages for Fiat in Luxembourg and Starbucks in the Netherlands are illegal under EU state aid rules

Following in-depth investigations, which were  launched in June 2014, the Commission has concluded that Luxembourg has granted selective tax advantages to Fiat's financing company and the Netherlands to Starbucks' coffee roasting company. In each case, a tax ruling issued by the respective national tax authority artificially lowered the tax paid by the company. Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy, stated: “Tax rulings that artificially reduce a company's tax burden are not in line with EU state aid rules. They are illegal. I hope that, with today's decisions, this message will be heard by

Page 10 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Member State governments and companies alike. All companies, big or small, multinational or not, should pay their fair share of tax." Tax rulings as such are perfectly legal. They are comfort letters issued by tax authorities to give a company clarity on how its corporate tax will be calculated or on the use of special tax provisions. However, the two tax rulings under investigation endorsedartificial and complex methods to establish taxable profits for the companies. They do not reflect economic reality. This is done, in particular, by setting prices for goods and services sold between companies of the Fiat and Starbucks groups
(so-called “transfer prices") that do not correspond to market conditions. As a result, most of the profits of Starbucks' coffee roasting company are shifted abroad, where they are also not taxed, and Fiat's financing company only paid taxes on a small part of its actual profits. This is illegal under EU state aid rules and therefore, the Commission has ordered Luxembourg and the Netherlands to recover the unpaid tax from Fiat and Starbucks, respectively, in order to remove the unfair competitive advantage they have enjoyed and to restore equal treatment with other companies in similar situations. The amounts to recover are at least €20 million for each company. It also means that the companies can no longer continue to benefit from the advantageous tax treatment granted by these tax rulings. Furthermore, the Commission
continues to pursue its inquiry into tax rulings practices in all EU Member States. It cannot prejudge the opening of additional formal investigations into tax rulings if it has indications that EU state aid rules are not being complied with. A full press release is available in  EN, FR, DE, NL, IT and other languages. The non-confidential version of the decisions will be made available under the case numbers  SA.38375 (Fiat)
and SA.38374 (Starbucks) in the State aid register on the DG Competition website once any confidentiality issues have been resolved. (For more information: Ricardo Cardoso - Tel.: +32 229 80100; Yizhou Ren - Tel.: +32 229 94889)
Antitrust: Commission  fines suppliers of optical  disc drives € 116 million for cartel

The European Commission has fined eight optical  disc drive suppliers a total of €116 million for having coordinated their behaviour in relation to procurement tenders organised by two computer manufacturers, in breach of EU antitrust rules. Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy said: “Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a  disc. Keeping these markets competitive is important. Today's decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe."Eight suppliers engaged in the illegal practices covered by this decision, namely Philips, Lite-On, their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions, Hitachi-LG Data Storage, Toshiba Samsung Storage Technology, Sony, Sony Optiarc and Quanta Storage. Under the Commission's 2006 Leniency Notice, Philips, Lite-On and their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions received full immunity from  fines as they were the first to reveal the existence of the  cartel. More information on this case will be available under the case number  39639 in
the public case register on the Commission's competition website, once confidentiality issues have been dealt with. For more information on the Commission’s action against cartels, see its  cartels website. The press release is available online. (For more information: Ricardo Cardoso - Tel.: +32 229 80100;Carolina Luna Gordo - Tel.: +32 229 68386)
EUROSTAT: Euro area and EU28 government deficit at 2.6% and 3.0% of GDP respectively

In 2014, the government deficit of both the euro area (EA19) and the EU28 decreased in absolute terms compared with 2013, while the government debt rose in both zones. In the euro area the government deficit to GDP ratio decreased from 3.0% in 2013 to 2.6% in 2014, and in the EU28 from 3.3% to 3.0%. In the euro area the government debt to GDP ratio increased from 91.1% at the end of 2013 to 92.1% at the end of 2014, and in the EU28 from 85.5% to 86.8%. A Eurostat press release is available  here. (For more information:Annika Breidthardt - Tel.: +32 229 56153; Annikky Lamp - Tel.: +32 229 56151)
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Vice-President for Energy Union Maroš Šefčovič on official visit to the United States and Canada

Vice-President for Energy Union, Maroš Šefčovič, visits the United States from 21 to 23 October and Canada on 26 October. The visit will include a series of meetings with members of the US Executive and Legislative branches and Canada Administration. It will also include speeches on transatlantic EU-US and attendance of the meeting of the EU-Canada Energy Cooperation. On Wednesday, 21 October
Vice-President Šefčovič will participate in a meeting with US Senator Heidi Heitkamp and Senator Ron Johnson. On Thursday, 22 October, he will address the Washington’s  Peterson Institute for International Economics on “A 21st Century Transatlantic Energy Compact". The Vice-President will meet US Secretary of Energy Dr. Ernest Moniz, Deputy National Security Adviser Caroline Atkinson, Senior Advisor to President Obama, Brian Deese and he will visit the World Bank Group to meet the Vice-President for the Sustainable Development, Ms Laura Tuck. A meeting with Deputy Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, is foreseen for Friday, 23 October. On Friday, Vice-President Šefčovič will also participate in a  U.S. Chamber of Commerce roundtable and will attend a meeting with the First Deputy Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, Mr David Lipton.In Canada, Vice-President Šefčovič will deliver a speech at
Page 11 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
the Montreal Council on Foreign Relations entitled “The EU Energy Union - An opportunity for reinforcing EU-Canada energy cooperation" and meet the Prime Minister of Quebec, Honourable Philippe Couillard and the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources of Quebec, Honourable Pierre Arcard. Follow Vice President's  blog, as well as his Twitter and Facebook accounts. Find more information on the Commission’s website of the  Energy Union. (For more information: Anna-Kaisa Itkonen - Tel.: +32 229
56186; Nicole Bockstaller - Tel.: +32 229 52589)
—
CO    eucmm : European Commission
NS     gimm : Asylum/Immigration | npress : Press Releases | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News
| gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types
RE     eecz : European Union Countries | lux : Luxembourg | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz
: Western Europe
IPD    Economy
PUB  Multimedia Investments Ltd
AN     Document NKITEN0020151021ebal0000f


















































Page 12 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD     Antitrust: Commission fines suppliers of optical  disc drives € 116 million for cartel
WC    1,015 words
PD     21 October 2015
SN     NewsKitchen.eu
SC     NKITEN
LA      English
CY     Copyright 2015. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.

LP
MIL OSI - Source:  European Commission - Press Release/Statement
Headline: Antitrust: Commission  fines suppliers of optical  disc drives € 116 million for cartel

TD
The European Commission has fined eight optical  disc drive suppliers a total of €116 million for having coordinated their behaviour in relation to procurement tenders organised by two computer manufacturers, in breach of EU antitrust rules.

Optical  disc drives (“ODDs") read or record data stored on optical disks, such as CDs, DVDs or Blu-ray.They are used for instance in personal computers,  CD and DVD players and video game consoles. The anticompetitive conduct subject to  fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for ODDs for laptops and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP).

Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy said: “Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a disc. Keeping these markets competitive is important. Today's decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe."

Eight suppliers engaged in the illegal practices covered by this decision, namely Philips, Lite-On, their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions, Hitachi-LG Data Storage, Toshiba Samsung Storage Technology, Sony, Sony Optiarc and Quanta Storage.

Under the Commission's 2006 Leniency Notice, Philips, Lite-On and their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions received full immunity from  fines as they were the first to reveal the existence of the cartel.

The Commission's investigation revealed that between June 2004 and November 2008, the companies participating in the  cartel communicated to each other their intentions regarding bidding strategies, shared the results of procurement tenders and exchanged other commercially sensitive information concerning ODDs used in laptops and desktops. They organised a network of parallel bilateral contacts that pursued
a single plan to avoid aggressive competition in procurement tenders organised by Dell and HP.

Although the  cartel contacts took place outside of the European Economic Area (EEA), they were implemented on a worldwide basis. Of the companies involved in the  cartel, only Philips is headquartered in Europe. The remaining seven are headquartered in Asia.The duration of each company's involvement
in the cartel varied and ranged from less than a year to over four years.

The companies were aware that their behaviour was illegal and tried to conceal their contacts and to evade detection of their arrangements. For example, they avoided naming the competitors concerned in their internal correspondence but used abbreviations or generic names.

The cartelists also avoided leaving traces of anticompetitive arrangements by preferring face-to-face meetings and ensured that the competitors' discussions were not revealed to customers.Some of them met in places where they could not be easily spotted, including in parking lots or cinemas.

Fines

The fines were set on the basis of the  Commission's 2006 Guidelines on fines (see Press Release and MEMO). In setting the level of  fines, the Commission took into account, in particular, the companies' sales of the products concerned in the EEA, the serious nature of the infringement, its geographic scope and its

Page 13 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
duration. The  fines achieve an appropriate level of deterrence while remaining proportional to the infringement.

Philips, Lite-On and Philips & Lite-On jointly received full immunity from fines as they were the first to reveal the cartel to the Commission, thereby avoiding an aggregate fine of € 63.5 million. Hitachi-LG Data Storage received a 50% reduction on its  fine for its cooperation in the investigation under the Commission's leniency programme and partial immunity for enabling the Commission to establish a longer duration of the  cartel.

In setting the fines, the Commission also took account of the fact that Philips, Sony and Sony Optiarc took part in the cartel behaviour only with regard to procurement tenders organised by Dell.
The breakdown of the  fines imposed to each company for their participation in the  cartel is as follows:


Fine before adjustment (€)           Reduction under the Leniency Notice Fine
(€)
Philips                              10 461 000
100%  0
Lite-On                              31 366 000
100%  0
Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions  22 037 000
100%  0
Hitachi-LG Data Storage              74 243 000                          50%
37 121 000
Toshiba Samsung Storage Technology   73 833 000                          41
304 000
Sony                                 18 062 000                          21
024 000
Sony Optiarc                         10 085 000                          9
782 000
Quanta Storage                       7 146 000                           7
146 000

Background

Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 53 of the EEA Agreement prohibit cartels and other restrictive business practices.
The Commission's investigation started with a set of requests for information in June 2009. The
Commission issued a statement of objections in  July 2012 and carried out an oral hearing in November
2012.

More information on this case will be available under the case number  39639 in the public case register on the Commission's competition website, once confidentiality issues have been dealt with. For more information on the Commission’s action against cartels, see its  cartels website.
Action for damages

Any person or firm affected by anti-competitive behaviour as described in this case may bring the matter before the courts of the Member States and seek damages. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the  Antitrust Regulation 1/2003 both confirm that in cases before national courts, a Commission decision is binding proof that the behaviour took place and was illegal. Even though the Commission has fined the companies concerned, damages may be awarded without these being reduced on account of the Commission  fine.
The Antitrust Damages Directive, which the Member States have to implement in their legal systems by
27 December 2016, makes it  easier for victims of anti-competitive practices to obtain damages. More
information on antitrust damages actions, including a practical guide on how to quantify antitrust harm, is
available here.
—
CO     eucmm : European Commission | euruno : The European Union

NS     cprf : Price Fixing | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | npress : Press Releases | c31 : Marketing/Markets | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

Page 14 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
RE     eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe
IPD    Economy
PUB   Multimedia Investments Ltd
AN     Document NKITEN0020151021ebal0000g

































































Page 15 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     Daily News 21 / 10 / 2015
WC    2,352 words
PD     21 October 2015
SN     ForeignAffairs.co.nz
SC     PARALL
LA      English
CY     Copyright 2015. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.

LP
MIL OSI -
MIL OSI - Source:  European Commission - Press Release/Statement

TD
Headline: Daily News 21 / 10 / 2015
Completing Europe’s Economic and Monetary Union: Commission takes concrete steps to strengthen
EMU

Following the presentation of the “Five Presidents’ Report” by the Presidents of the Commission, the Euro Summit, the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank and the European Parliament, the Commission launched Stage 1 (“Deepening by doing”) of the process of completing EMU on 1 July 2015. It follows up today with concrete measures to begin the implementation of the ambitious plan to deepen EMU. The package of measures adopted by the College of Commissioners entails a revised approach to the European Semester, including through enhanced democratic dialogue and further improved economic governance, such as the introduction of national Competitiveness Boards and an advisory European
Fiscal Board; a more unified representation of the euro area in international financial institutions, especially the IMF. It also specifies the steps towards completing the Banking Union, notably via a European Deposit Insurance Guarantee Scheme and measures to further reduce risk in the banking system. Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President for the Euro and Social Dialogue, said: “Europe’s Economic and Monetary Union needs strong foundations, not least to be more resilient to future shocks and withstand the global challenges ahead of us. Today, we propose tangible steps towards improving the EU’s economic governance rules, which were last strengthened in the immediate aftermath of the crisis. We have the rules, we need to use them better. Looking ahead, we will have to use the next two years to shape consensus for more far-reaching changes that will be needed to complete our Economic and Monetary Union.” Commissioner Pierre Moscovici, responsible for Economic and Financial Affairs, Taxation and Customs, said: “Today’s package is about restarting economic and social convergence in our currency union. The next phase will be about political convergence and democratic renewal.” The full press release, Q&A, factsheets and all relevant documents are available here. (For more information: Annika Breidthardt - Tel.: +32 229 56153; Annikky Lamp - Tel.: +32 229 56151)
Calabria: €1.78 billion of EU Cohesion funds for 2014-2020

The European Commission adopted yesterday the 2014-2020 Operational Programme for the Italian region of Calabria, worth €2.37 billion, with €1.78 billion from the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund. The programme focuses on three priorities: boosting jobs and growth in the region, preserving the environment and promoting social and professional inclusion. Corina Crețu, Commissioner for Regional Policy, said: “This programme will enable Calabria to fully capitalize on its strengths and boost the competitiveness of its economy. I am very proud of the solid investment package we adopted.” Marianne Thyssen, Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs, Skills and Labour Mobility, added: “The ESF intervention in Calabria will focus on tackling unemployment, in particular of young and long-term unemployed, and improving skill levels. 20% of the resources will be dedicated to the fight against poverty and to social inclusion of the most vulnerable people.” More information on Cohesion Policy in Italy and on Regional Policy is available online. (For more information: Jakub Adamowicz - Tel.: +32 229 50595; Sophie Dupin de Saint-Cyr - Tel.: +32 229 56169)
Over €283 million of EU funds for inclusive growth in Italy

Page 16 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The Commission adopted yesterday the 2014-2020 National Operational Programme “Legalità”, worth over €377.6 million, with €283 million coming from the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund. The programme will promote a more modern and transparent public administration and foster social inclusion for legal migrants, asylum seekers and vulnerable groups in Italy’s less developed regions. Commissioner for Regional Policy Corina Creţu said: “This programme contributes to addressing the refugee crisis, one of the biggest challenges we ever had to address as a Union. Investments under this programme will help legal migrants, asylum seekers and vulnerable groups find their place in society, by improving their social and professional inclusion.” Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs, Skills and Labour Mobility Marianne Thyssen said: “The European Social Fund helps to improve the lives of millions of people in Europe each year and is an indispensable tool in helping them
find better jobs. I have made clear already several weeks ago that we need to use EU funds better to respond to the refugee crisis. The programme adopted today will do exactly that and help to integrate and support refugees and other vulnerable groups.” The descriptions of the 2014-2020 programmes are available on Commissioner Crețu‘s webpage and on the Inforegio website (For more information: Jakub Adamowicz - Tel.: +32 229 50595; Sophie Dupin de Saint-Cyr - Tel.: +32 229 56169)
EU invests €100 million to boost transnational cooperation in the Adriatic-Ionian region

The European Commission adopted yesterday the new transnational cooperation programme for the Adriatic-Ionian region, worth €118 million, with nearly €100 million from the European Regional Development Fund and from the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. The Programme will support the implementation of the European Union Strategy for the Adriatic-Ionian region by enhancing economic, social, and territorial cohesion, preserving the environment and improving connectivity. The programme involves four EU countries - Greece, Croatia, Italy and Slovenia - with the participation of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia. The descriptions of the 2014-2020 programmes are available on Commissioner Crețu’s webpage and on the Inforegio website. (For more information: Jakub Adamowicz - Tel.: +32 229 50595; Sophie Dupin de Saint-Cyr - Tel.: +32 229 56169)
EU announces another €60 million in support for Somali refugees

Today, High Representative / Vice President Federica Mogherini and the Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development, Neven Mimica, will announce €60 million to support Somali refugees and displaced persons in Somalia and Kenya. This announcement will be made during a Ministerial Pledging Conference on Somali Refugees taking place in Brussels. Prior to the conference, High Representative / Vice President, Federica Mogherini, said: “When it comes to migration, European and African countries work together. That’s why dialogue is a key aspect of the EU’s external policy on migration. I’ve recently travelled to Niger and Ethiopia to launch High Level Dialogues with these key countries. Today’s event brings key partners together to discuss how to join efforts to give Somali refugees and displaced persons a better future.” Commissioner Mimica commented: “The EU stands ready to further build on its
long-standing partnership with the Horn of Africa and to give €60 million to support the Somali refugees in the neighbouring countries. There can be no real peace building, state building or development without a durable solution for the Somali refugees. They account for almost 20% of the Somali population.” A press release and a factsheet are available. Information on the total amounts pledged during the conference will be made available here at the end of the conference. (For more information: Alexandre Polack - Tel.: +32
229 90677; Sharon Zarb - Tel.: + 32 229 92256)

Refugee crisis: meeting of First Vice President Timmermans with a delegation from the “For 1000 lives: Be Human” appeal

Yesterday First Vice-President Timmermans received representatives of the 5,500 European film professionals who signed the appeal “For 1000 lives: Be Human“. The delegation included directors Michel Hazanavicius (The Artist) and Laurent Cantet (Entre les Murs) director and actress Valeria Bruni Tedeschi, actress Hanna Schygulla and actor Andrzej Chyra. The delegation appealed to the European
Union to respond to the refugee crisis by acting jointly, in solidarity, and with humanity, in accordance with the EU’s founding values. First Vice-President Timmermans welcomed the initiative and said: “We need to continue to work hard to put solutions in place which are both humane and effective. In order to break the logic of fear which has become so widespread in our societies - the fear of the other, of what the future holds - we also need people in civil society who stand up for humanist values”. Michel Hazanavicius said: “It is only by being political and humane that Europe can hope to fend off the dangers of populism that threaten democracy. Silence is the first ally of populism”. (For more information: Natasha Bertaud - Tel.:
+32 229 67456; Tim McPhie - Tel.: +32 229 58602)

Commission decides selective tax advantages for Fiat in Luxembourg and Starbucks in the Netherlands are illegal under EU state aid rules
Following in-depth investigations, which were launched in June 2014, the Commission has concluded that
Luxembourg has granted selective tax advantages to Fiat’s financing company and the Netherlands to

Page 17 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Starbucks’ coffee roasting company. In each case, a tax ruling issued by the respective national tax authority artificially lowered the tax paid by the company. Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy, stated: “Tax rulings that artificially reduce a company’s tax burden are not in line with EU state aid rules. They are illegal. I hope that, with today’s decisions, this message will be heard by Member State governments and companies alike. All companies, big or small, multinational or not, should pay their fair share of tax.” Tax rulings as such are perfectly legal. They are comfort letters issued by tax authorities to give a company clarity on how its corporate tax will be calculated or on the use of special tax provisions. However, the two tax rulings under investigation endorsedartificial and complex methods to establish taxable profits for the companies. They do not reflect economic reality. This is done, in particular, by setting prices for goods and services sold between companies of the Fiat and Starbucks groups
(so-called “transfer prices”) that do not correspond to market conditions. As a result, most of the profits of Starbucks’ coffee roasting company are shifted abroad, where they are also not taxed, and Fiat’s financing company only paid taxes on a small part of its actual profits. This is illegal under EU state aid
rules and therefore, the Commission has ordered Luxembourg and the Netherlands to recover the unpaid tax from Fiat and Starbucks, respectively, in order to remove the unfair competitive advantage they have enjoyed and to restore equal treatment with other companies in similar situations. The amounts to recover are at least €20 million for each company. It also means that the companies can no longer continue to benefit from the advantageous tax treatment granted by these tax rulings. Furthermore, the Commission continues to pursue its inquiry into tax rulings practices in all EU Member States. It cannot prejudge the opening of additional formal investigations into tax rulings if it has indications that EU state aid rules are not being complied with. A full press release is available in EN, FR, DE, NL, IT and other languages. The non-confidential version of the decisions will be made available under the case numbers SA.38375 (Fiat) and SA.38374 (Starbucks) in the State aid register on the DG Competition website once any
confidentiality issues have been resolved. (For more information: Ricardo Cardoso - Tel.: +32 229 80100; Yizhou Ren - Tel.: +32 229 94889)
Antitrust: Commission  fines suppliers of optical  disc drives € 116 million for cartel

The European Commission has fined eight optical  disc drive suppliers a total of €116 million for having coordinated their behaviour in relation to procurement tenders organised by two computer manufacturers, in breach of EU antitrust rules. Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy said: “Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a  disc. Keeping these markets competitive is important. Today’s decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas
and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe.”Eight suppliers engaged in the illegal practices covered by this decision, namely Philips, Lite-On, their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions, Hitachi-LG Data Storage, ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology, Sony, Sony Optiarc and Quanta Storage. Under the Commission’s 2006 Leniency Notice, Philips, Lite-On and their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions received full immunity from  fines as they were the first to reveal the existence of the  cartel. More information on this case will be available under the case number 39639 in
the public case register on the Commission’s competition website, once confidentiality issues have been dealt with. For more information on the Commission’s action against cartels, see its cartels website. The press release is available online. (For more information: Ricardo Cardoso - Tel.: +32 229 80100;Carolina Luna Gordo - Tel.: +32 229 68386)
EUROSTAT: Euro area and EU28 government deficit at 2.6% and 3.0% of GDP respectively

In 2014, the government deficit of both the euro area (EA19) and the EU28 decreased in absolute terms compared with 2013, while the government debt rose in both zones. In the euro area the government deficit to GDP ratio decreased from 3.0% in 2013 to 2.6% in 2014, and in the EU28 from 3.3% to 3.0%. In the euro area the government debt to GDP ratio increased from 91.1% at the end of 2013 to 92.1% at the end of 2014, and in the EU28 from 85.5% to 86.8%. A Eurostat press release is available ANNOUNCEMENTS
Vice-President for Energy Union Maroš Šefčovič on official visit to the United States and Canada

Vice-President for Energy Union, Maroš Šefčovič, visits the United States from 21 to 23 October and Canada on 26 October. The visit will include a series of meetings with members of the US Executive and Legislative branches and Canada Administration. It will also include speeches on transatlantic EU-US and attendance of the meeting of the EU-Canada Energy Cooperation. On Wednesday, 21 October
Vice-President Šefčovič will participate in a meeting with US Senator Heidi Heitkamp and Senator Ron
Johnson. On Thursday, 22 October, he will address the Washington’s
© Multimedia Investments Ltd  Terms of Use/Disclaimer.
CO     eucmm : European Commission


Page 18 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
IN       ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
NS     gimm : Asylum/Immigration | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General
News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
RE     lux : Luxembourg | calabr : Calabria | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries |
eurz : Europe | italy : Italy | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western Europe
IPD    Baltics
PUB   Multimedia Investments Ltd
AN     Document PARALL0020151022ebal000c0




























































Page 19 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        Antitrust: Commission fines suppliers of optical  disc drives € 116 million for cartel
WC       1,024 words
PD        21 October 2015
SN        ForeignAffairs.co.nz
SC        PARALL
LA        English
CY        Copyright 2015. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.

LP
MIL OSI -
MIL OSI - Source:  European Commission - Press Release/Statement

TD
Headline: Antitrust: Commission  fines suppliers of optical  disc drives € 116 million for cartel

The European Commission has fined eight optical  disc drive suppliers a total of €116 million for having coordinated their behaviour in relation to procurement tenders organised by two computer manufacturers, in breach of EU antitrust rules.

Optical  disc drives (“ODDs”) read or record data stored on optical disks, such as CDs, DVDs or Blu-ray.They are used for instance in personal computers,  CD and DVD players and video game consoles. The anticompetitive conduct subject to  fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for ODDs for laptops and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP).

Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy said: “Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a disc. Keeping these markets competitive is important. Today’s decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe.”

Eight suppliers engaged in the illegal practices covered by this decision, namely Philips, Lite-On, their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions, Hitachi-LG Data Storage, ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology, Sony, Sony Optiarc and Quanta Storage.

Under the Commission’s 2006 Leniency Notice, Philips, Lite-On and their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions received full immunity from  fines as they were the first to reveal the existence of the cartel.

The Commission’s investigation revealed that between June 2004 and November 2008, the companies participating in the  cartel communicated to each other their intentions regarding bidding strategies, shared the results of procurement tenders and exchanged other commercially sensitive information concerning ODDs used in laptops and desktops. They organised a network of parallel bilateral contacts that pursued a single plan to avoid aggressive competition in procurement tenders organised by Dell and HP.

Although the  cartel contacts took place outside of the European Economic Area (EEA), they were implemented on a worldwide basis. Of the companies involved in the  cartel, only Philips is headquartered in Europe. The remaining seven are headquartered in Asia.The duration of each company’s involvement in the  cartel varied and ranged from less than a year to over four years.

The companies were aware that their behaviour was illegal and tried to conceal their contacts and to evade detection of their arrangements. For example, they avoided naming the competitors concerned in their internal correspondence but used abbreviations or generic names.

The cartelists also avoided leaving traces of anticompetitive arrangements by preferring face-to-face meetings and ensured that the competitors’ discussions were not revealed to customers.Some of them met in places where they could not be easily spotted, including in parking lots or cinemas.

Page 20 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Fines

The fines were set on the basis of the Commission’s 2006 Guidelines on  fines (see Press Release and MEMO). In setting the level of  fines, the Commission took into account, in particular, the companies’ sales of the products concerned in the EEA, the serious nature of the infringement, its geographic scope and its duration. The  fines achieve an appropriate level of deterrence while remaining proportional to
the infringement.

Philips, Lite-On and Philips & Lite-On jointly received full immunity from fines as they were the first to reveal the cartel to the Commission, thereby avoiding an aggregate fine of € 63.5 million. Hitachi-LG Data Storage received a 50% reduction on its  fine for its cooperation in the investigation under the Commission’s leniency programme and partial immunity for enabling the Commission to establish a longer duration of the  cartel.

In setting the fines, the Commission also took account of the fact that Philips, Sony and Sony Optiarc took part in the cartel behaviour only with regard to procurement tenders organised by Dell.
The breakdown of the  fines imposed to each company for their participation in the  cartel is as follows:


Fine before adjustment (€)           Reduction under the Leniency Notice
Fine (€)
Philips                              10 461 000
100%  0
Lite-On                              31 366 000
100%  0
Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions  22 037 000
100%  0
Hitachi-LG Data Storage              74 243 000
50%   37 121 000
ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology   73 833 000                          41
304 000
Sony                                 18 062 000                          21
024 000
Sony Optiarc                         10 085 000                          9
782 000
Quanta Storage                       7 146 000                           7
146 000

Background

Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 53 of the EEA Agreement prohibit cartels and other restrictive business practices.
The Commission’s investigation started with a set of requests for information in June 2009. The
Commission issued a statement of objections in July 2012 and carried out an oral hearing in November
2012.

More information on this case will be available under the case number 39639 in the public case register on the Commission’s competition website, once confidentiality issues have been dealt with. For more information on the Commission’s action against cartels, see its cartels website.
Action for damages

Any person or firm affected by anti-competitive behaviour as described in this case may bring the matter before the courts of the Member States and seek damages. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Antitrust Regulation 1/2003 both confirm that in cases before national courts, a Commission decision is binding proof that the behaviour took place and was illegal. Even though the Commission has fined the companies concerned, damages may be awarded without these being reduced on account of the Commission  fine.
The Antitrust Damages Directive, which the Member States have to implement in their legal systems by
27 December 2016, makes it easier for victims of anti-competitive practices to obtain damages. More
information on antitrust damages actions, including a practical guide on how to quantify antitrust harm, is
available here.
—

Page 21 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
© Multimedia Investments Ltd Terms of Use/Disclaimer.
CO        eucmm : European Commission

NS        cprf : Price Fixing | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | c31 : Marketing/Markets | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE        nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
IPD       Baltics
PUB     Multimedia Investments Ltd
AN        Document PARALL0020151022ebal000c1

























































Page 22 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Hitachi Ltd - EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers - Reuters
WC      231 words
PD       21 October 2015
SN       Reuters Significant Developments
SC       MULTI
LA       English
CY       Copyright © 2015 Reuters

LP
Date Announced: 20151021

TD
Hitachi Ltd:The European Commission has handed out a 116 million euros ($131.73 million)  fine to producers of optical disc drives, having found them guilty of colluding on price - RTRS.The Commission, which acts as the competition watchdog in the 28-member European Union, said the largest  fine of 41.3 million euros was for a joint venture of Toshiba and Samsung Electronics, while Sony 6758.T, Hitachi-LG Data Storage and Quanta Storage were also  fined - RTRS."The anticompetitive conduct subject to  fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for optical disk  drives for laptops
and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP)," the Commission said in a statement - RTRS.Philips and its joint venture partner Lite-On were also found guilty but not  fined because they had alerted regulators to the cartel, the Commission added - RTRS."Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a disc.Keeping these markets competitive is important," European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said - RTRS."Today's decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe," she continued - RTRS.

CO      htchi : Hitachi Limited | eucmm : European Commission
IN        i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | ielec : Consumer Electronics | itech : Technology
RE       usa : United States | namz : North America
IPD      Company Type; EQU
IPC      Market Guide Industry Map Code; 1000
PUB    Reuters America LLC
AN       Document MULTI00020151023ebal0002l




















Page 23 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Koninklijke Philips  NV - EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers - Reuters
WC      233 words
PD       21 October 2015
SN       Reuters Significant Developments
SC       MULTI
LA       English
CY       Copyright © 2015 Reuters

LP
Date Announced: 20151021

TD
Koninklijke Philips NV:The European Commission has handed out a 116 million euros ($131.73 million) fine to producers of optical disc drives, having found them guilty of colluding on price - RTRS.The Commission, which acts as the competition watchdog in the 28-member European Union, said the
largest fine of 41.3 million euros was for a joint venture of Toshiba and Samsung Electronics, while Sony
6758.T, Hitachi-LG Data Storage and Quanta Storage were also  fined - RTRS."The anticompetitive
conduct subject to  fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for optical
disk drives for laptops and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP)," the Commission said
in a statement - RTRS.Philips and its joint venture partner Lite-On were also found guilty but not  fined
because they had alerted regulators to the  cartel, the Commission added - RTRS."Millions of EU citizens
use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures
on a disc.Keeping these markets competitive is important," European Competition Commissioner
Margrethe Vestager said - RTRS."Today's decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot
escape fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their
products in Europe," she continued - RTRS.

CO      peain : Koninklijke Philips NV | eucmm : European Commission
IN        i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3454 : Personal Electronics | ielec : Consumer Electronics |
itech : Technology
RE       usa : United States | namz : North America
IPD      Company Type; EQU
IPC      Market Guide Industry Map Code; 0800
PUB    Reuters America LLC
AN       Document MULTI00020151023ebal0002w



















Page 24 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Sony Corp - EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers - Reuters
WC      231 words
PD       21 October 2015
SN       Reuters Significant Developments
SC       MULTI
LA       English
CY       Copyright © 2015 Reuters

LP
Date Announced: 20151021

TD
Sony Corp:The European Commission has handed out a 116 million euros ($131.73 million)  fine to producers of optical disc drives, having found them guilty of colluding on price - RTRS.The Commission, which acts as the competition watchdog in the 28-member European Union, said the largest  fine of 41.3 million euros was for a joint venture of Toshiba and Samsung Electronics, while Sony 6758.T, Hitachi-LG Data Storage and Quanta Storage were also  fined - RTRS."The anticompetitive conduct subject to  fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for optical disk  drives for laptops
and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP)," the Commission said in a statement - RTRS.Philips and its joint venture partner Lite-On were also found guilty but not  fined because they had alerted regulators to the cartel, the Commission added - RTRS."Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a disc.Keeping these markets competitive is important," European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said - RTRS."Today's decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe," she continued - RTRS.

CO      eucmm : European Commission | snyco : Sony Corporation
IN        i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3454 : Personal Electronics | ielec : Consumer Electronics |
itech : Technology
RE       usa : United States | namz : North America
IPD      Company Type; EQU
IPC      Market Guide Industry Map Code; 0400
PUB    Reuters America LLC
AN       Document MULTI00020151023ebal0004x




















Page 25 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Toshiba Corp - EU regulator hands out 116 mln euros cartel fine for disc drive makers - Reuters
WC      231 words
PD       21 October 2015
SN       Reuters Significant Developments
SC       MULTI
LA       English
CY       Copyright © 2015 Reuters

LP
Date Announced: 20151021

TD
Toshiba Corp:The European Commission has handed out a 116 million euros ($131.73 million)  fine to producers of optical disc drives, having found them guilty of colluding on price - RTRS.The Commission, which acts as the competition watchdog in the 28-member European Union, said the largest  fine of 41.3 million euros was for a joint venture of Toshiba and Samsung Electronics, while Sony 6758.T, Hitachi-LG Data Storage and Quanta Storage were also  fined - RTRS."The anticompetitive conduct subject to  fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for optical disk  drives for laptops
and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP)," the Commission said in a statement - RTRS.Philips and its joint venture partner Lite-On were also found guilty but not  fined because they had alerted regulators to the cartel, the Commission added - RTRS."Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a disc.Keeping these markets competitive is important," European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said - RTRS."Today's decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe," she continued - RTRS.

CO      tshba : Toshiba Corp | eucmm : European Commission
IN        i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3454 : Personal Electronics | ielec : Consumer Electronics |
itech : Technology
RE       usa : United States | namz : North America
IPD      Company Type; EQU
IPC      Market Guide Industry Map Code; 0400
PUB    Reuters America LLC
AN       Document MULTI00020151023ebal0005f




















Page 26 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD               EU Fines Sony , 4 Other Firms 116 M. Euros over Disc Drive Cartel
WC              140 words
PD               21 October 2015
ET               03:22 PM
SN               Jiji Press English News Service
SC               JIJI
LA               English
CY               © 2015 Jiji Press, Ltd.

LP
Brussels, Oct. 21 (Jiji Press)--The European Commission said Wednesday it has slapped  fines totaling 116 million euros on five makers of optical disc drives including Japanese firms for forming a price cartel.

Among the five, Sony Corp . <6758> was  fined 21 million euros, Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc. 37.1 million euros and Toshiba Samsung Storage Technology 41.3 million euros.

TD
Three other companies, including Royal Philips of the Netherlands, also played part in the  cartel but escaped paying fines because they informed the executive body of the European Union of the existence of the anticompetitive price deal.
According to the commission, the eight makers formed the  cartel between June 2004 and
November 2008 while knowing they were violating the EU competition law.
END
[Jiji Press]

CO              htchi : Hitachi Limited | eucmm : European Commission | snyco : Sony Corporation
IN                i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3454 : Personal Electronics | ielec : Consumer
Electronics | itech : Technology
NS               cprf : Price Fixing | gcat : Political/General News | c31 : Marketing/Markets | c314 : Pricing | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE               jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia
IPC              General News
PUB            Jiji Press Limited
AN               Document JIJI000020151021ebal000e1
















Page 27 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     EU fines companies for colluding on disc drives deals
WC    428 words
PD     21 October 2015
ET     01:28 PM
SN     Associated Press Newswires
SC     APRS
LA     English
CY     (c) 2015. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS (AP) — The  European Commission slapped fines totaling 116 million euros ($132 million) on eight companies Wednesday for colluding on deals to supply optical  disc drives to computer companies Dell and Hewlett Packard.

The Commission said the companies illicitly colluded "to avoid aggressive competition in procurement tenders organized by Dell and HP."

TD
It added that some company representatives — knowing their actions were illegal — met in parking lots and movie theaters to discuss tender details for supplying products such as  CD and DVD drives.

"The companies in this case were well aware that their behavior was illegal and took measures to avoid being detected," said European Commissioner Margrethe Vestager. "But whatever strategies companies may put in place, they will not escape our attention."

Hitachi-LG Data Storage Technology received the biggest  fine — 74.2 million euros ($84.3 million), though half of it was waived due to the company's cooperation with the investigation. Philips and Lite-On also were fined as was a joint venture established by the two companies, but they had the punishments waived because they were first to reveal the existence of the  cartel.
The other companies  fined were Sony, Sony Optiarc, ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology and Quanta
Storage.

ART   European Commissioner for Competition Margrethe Vestager speaks during a media conference at EU headquarters in Brussels on Wednesday, Oct. 21, 2015. The European Union is demanding that U.S. coffee chain Starbucks and carmaker Fiat repay up to 30 million euros ($34 million) each in tax breaks
they received from EU nations, in a major ruling to cut down on sweet tax deals global multinationals often shop for. (AP Photo/Virginia Mayo) | European Commissioner for Competition Margrethe Vestager speaks during a media conference at EU headquarters in Brussels on Wednesday, Oct. 21, 2015. The European Union is demanding that U.S. coffee chain Starbucks and carmaker Fiat repay up to 30 million euros ($34 million) each in tax breaks they received from EU nations, in a major ruling to cut down on sweet tax deals global multinationals often shop for. (AP Photo/Virginia Mayo) | European Commissioner for Competition Margrethe Vestager speaks during a media conference at EU headquarters in Brussels on Wednesday, Oct. 21, 2015. The European Union is demanding that U.S. coffee chain Starbucks and carmaker Fiat repay up to 30 million euros ($34 million) each in tax breaks they received from EU nations, in a major ruling to cut down on sweet tax deals global multinationals often shop for. (AP Photo/Virginia Mayo)
CO    hewlp : HP Inc | eucmm : European Commission | pcltd : Dell Inc | euruno : The European Union

IN      i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | itech : Technology
RE     belg : Belgium | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | benluxz : Benelux Countries | weurz : Western Europe
IPD    EU
IPC    i
PUB  The Associated Press
Page 28 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
AN     Document APRS000020151021ebal0099f






































































Page 29 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     Europa- Antitrust: Commission fines suppliers of optical  disc drives EUR 116 million for cartel
WC     1,090 words
PD      22 October 2015
SN      ENP Newswire
SC      ENPNEW
LA      English
CY      (c) 2015, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

LP
Release date - 21102015

The European Commission has fined eight optical  disc drive suppliers a total of EUR116 million for having coordinated their behaviour in relation to procurement tenders organised by two computer manufacturers, in breach of EU antitrust rules.

TD
The European Commission has fined eight optical  disc drive suppliers a total of EUR116 million for having coordinated their behaviour in relation to procurement tenders organised by two computer manufacturers, in breach of EU antitrust rules.

Optical  disc drives (‘ODDs’) read or record data stored on optical disks, such as CDs, DVDs or Blu-ray.They are used for instance in personal computers,  CD and DVD players and video game consoles. The anticompetitive conduct subject to  fines in this case concerns agreements to collude in procurement tenders for ODDs for laptops and desktops produced by Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP).

Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy said: ‘Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favourite pictures on a disc. Keeping these markets competitive is important. Today’s decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape  fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe.’

Eight suppliers engaged in the illegal practices covered by this decision, namely Philips, Lite-On, their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions, Hitachi-LG Data Storage, ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology, Sony, Sony Optiarc and Quanta Storage.

Under the Commission’s 2006 Leniency Notice, Philips, Lite-On and their joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions received full immunity from  fines as they were the first to reveal the existence of the cartel.

The Commission’s investigation revealed that between June 2004 and November 2008, the companies participating in the  cartel communicated to each other their intentions regarding bidding strategies, shared the results of procurement tenders and exchanged other commercially sensitive information concerning ODDs used in laptops and desktops. They organised a network of parallel bilateral contacts that pursued a single plan to avoid aggressive competition in procurement tenders organised by Dell and HP.

Although the  cartel contacts took place outside of the European Economic Area (EEA), they were implemented on a worldwide basis. Of the companies involved in the  cartel, only Philips is headquartered in Europe. The remaining seven are headquartered in Asia.The duration of each company’s involvement
in the cartel varied and ranged from less than a year to over four years.

The companies were aware that their behaviour was illegal and tried to conceal their contacts and to evade detection of their arrangements. For example, they avoided naming the competitors concerned in their internal correspondence but used abbreviations or generic names.

The cartelists also avoided leaving traces of anticompetitive arrangements by preferring face-to-face meetings and ensured that the competitors’ discussions were not revealed to customers.Some of them met in places where they could not be easily spotted, including in parking lots or cinemas.

Page 30 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Fines

The fines were set on the basis of the Commission’s 2006 Guidelines on  fines (see Press Release and MEMO). In setting the level of  fines, the Commission took into account, in particular, the companies’ sales of the products concerned in the EEA, the serious nature of the infringement, its geographic scope and its duration. The  fines achieve an appropriate level of deterrence while remaining proportional to the infringement.

Philips, Lite-On and Philips & Lite-On jointly received full immunity from fines as they were the first to reveal the cartel to the Commission, thereby avoiding an aggregate fine of EUR 63.5 million. Hitachi-LG Data Storage received a 50% reduction on its  fine for its cooperation in the investigation under the Commission’s leniency programme and partial immunity for enabling the Commission to establish a longer duration of the  cartel.

In setting the fines, the Commission also took account of the fact that Philips, Sony and Sony Optiarc took part in the cartel behaviour only with regard to procurement tenders organised by Dell.
The breakdown of the  fines imposed to each company for their participation in the  cartel is as follows:

Fine before adjustment (EUR)
Reduction under the Leniency Notice

Fine (EUR)
Philips
10 461 000
100%
0
Lite-On
31 366 000
100%
0
Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions
22 037 000
100%
0
Hitachi-LG Data Storage
74 243 000
50%
37 121 000
ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology
73 833 000
41 304 000
Sony
18 062 000
21 024 000
Sony Optiarc

Page 31 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
10 085 000
9 782 000
Quanta Storage
7 146 000
7 146 000
Background

Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 53 of the EEA Agreement prohibit cartels and other restrictive business practices.
The Commission’s investigation started with a set of requests for information in June 2009. The
Commission issued a statement of objections in July 2012 and carried out an oral hearing in November
2012.

More information on this case will be available under the case number 39639 in the public case register on the Commission’s competition website, once confidentiality issues have been dealt with. For more information on the Commission’s action against cartels, see its cartels website.
Action for damages

Any person or firm affected by anti-competitive behaviour as described in this case may bring the matter before the courts of the Member States and seek damages. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Antitrust Regulation 1/2003 both confirm that in cases before national courts, a Commission decision is binding proof that the behaviour took place and was illegal. Even though the Commission has fined the companies concerned, damages may be awarded without these being reduced on account of the Commission  fine.
The Antitrust Damages Directive, which the Member States have to implement in their legal systems by
27 December 2016, makes it easier for victims of anti-competitive practices to obtain damages. More
information on antitrust damages actions, including a practical guide on how to quantify antitrust harm, is
available here.
IP/15/5885
Press contacts:
Ricardo CARDOSO (+32 2 298 01 00) Carolina LUNA GORDO (+32 2 296 83 86)
General public inquiries: Europe Direct by phone 00 800 67 89 10 11 or by email
[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]
CO     eucmm : European Commission

NS      cprf : Price Fixing | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | npress : Press Releases | c31 : Marketing/Markets | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
PUB   Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN      Document ENPNEW0020151022ebam0008n













Page 32 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     (AE) COMPETITION: €116 million in fines for supplies of optical  disc drives
WC    248 words
PD     22 October 2015
SN     Bulletin Quotidien Europe
SC     AGEU
LA      English
CY     Copyright 2015. Agence Europe All Rights Reserved

LP
Brussels, 21/10/2015 (Agence Europe) - On Wednesday 21 October, the European Commission announced that it had handed down  fines of a total of €116 million to eight suppliers of optical disc drives for having coordinated their behaviour in tendering procedures organised by two computer manufacturers, Dell and Hewlett Packard (HP), in breach of EU rules.

TD
Philips, Lite-On, their joint company Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions, Hitachi-LG Data Storage, ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology, Sony, Sony Optiarc and Quanta Storage participated in the  cartel between June 2014 and November 2008 (the length of participation varies between these companies), notifying each other of their intentions as regarding their bidding strategies to secure contracts. They shared the results of calls for tender and exchanged commercially sensitive information on the optical  disc drives used in laptop and desktop computers. They organised a network of parallel bilateral contacts aiming to apply a single plan, in order to avoid aggressive competition in the calls for tender organised by Dell and HP.

Philips, Lite-On and their joint company Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions were granted total immunity as they were the first to reveal the existence of the  cartel. ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology was handed the heaviest  fine, €41 million. Hitachi-LG Data Storage was  fined €37 million, Sony €21 million, Sony Optiarc nearly €10 million and Quanta Storage €7 million. (Original version in French by Élodie Lamer)

CO     pcltd : Dell Inc

IN      i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | itech : Technology
NS     gpir : Politics/International Relations | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE     eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe
PUB  Agence Europe SA
AN     Document AGEU000020151022ebam00003

















Page 33 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD      Disc drive makers colluded against Dell, HP, panel says ; European Commissionfines eight firms over shared bid strategies.
WC    297 words
PD     22 October 2015
SN     Austin American-Statesman
SC     AAS ED  Final PG     B7
LA      English
CY     © 2015 Austin American Statesman. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights
Reserved.

LP
The European Commission has handed out a fine of 116 million euros ($132 million) to producers of optical disc drives, having found them guilty of colluding on deals to supply optical  disc drives to computer companies Dell Inc. and Hewlett-Packard.

The eight companies told one another their bidding strategies and exchanged the responses they received to their tenders from Round Rock-based Dell and H P as they sought to avoid competition, the commission said.

TD
Some company representatives - knowing their actions were illegal - met in parking lots and movie theaters to discuss tender details for supplying products such as  CD and DVD drives, the commission said.

"Millions of EU citizens use devices integrating optical  disc drives all the time, for example when storing their favorite pictures on a  disc. Keeping these markets competitive is important," European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said. "Today's decision demonstrates once again that cartelists cannot escape fines just by holding their meetings in cinemas and car parks outside Europe, while selling their products in Europe. But whatever strategies companies may put in place, they will not escape our attention."
Dell officials declined to comment on the  fines.

Hitachi-LG Data Storage Technology received the biggest  fine - 74.2 million euros ($84.3 million), though half of it was waived due to the company's cooperation with the investigation. Philips and Lite-On also were fined as was a joint venture established by the two companies, but they had the punishments waived because they were first to reveal the existence of the  cartel.
The other companies  fined were Sony, Sony Optiarc, ToshibaSamsung Storage Technology and Quanta
Storage.
Additional material from the Associated Press.

CO     pcltd : Dell Inc | eucmm : European Commission | hewlp : Hewlett-Packard Company | euruno : The
European Union
IN       i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | itech : Technology
RE     ustx : Texas | namz : North America | usa : United States | uss : Southern U.S.
IPD    European Commission
PUB   Cox Newspapers, Inc.
AN     Document AAS0000020151022ebam0000j





Page 34 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     Against  disc drive 'cartelists' EU regulator takes action
WC    484 words
PD     26 October 2015
SN     National Iraqi News Agency
SC     NAIRAQ
LA      English
CY     © 2015, National Iraqi News Agency, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.

LP
The European Commission has claimed eight businesses participated in a  cartel in the market for optical disc drives (ODDs). The Commission, which is responsible for enforcing EU competition laws, fined Hitachi-LG Data Storage, Toshiba Samsung Storage Technology, Sony, Sony Optiarc and Quanta Storage a total of 116 million for "having coordinated their behavior in relation to procurement tenders" for the supply of ODDs that were run by at least one of two computer manufacturers, Dell and Hewlett Packard.

Three other companies, Philips, Lite-On, and th eir joint venture Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions, avoided a financial penalty after disclosing their involvement in the activity, the Commission said.

TD
However, Sony, together with its subsidiary Sony Optiarc  fined more than 30m by the Commission, told
Out-Law.com that it does not accept the Commission's decision and would appeal.

"We disagree with and strongly contest the decision rendered today by the  European Commission concerning conduct alleged to have taken place between 2004 and 2008 in connection with the supply of optical disk drives to Dell in the European Union," Sony said in a statement. "Despite the narrowness of the Commission's finding as to Sony, the company believes the decision is incorrect and not supported by the evidence and it intends to appeal. Sony Corporation remains committed to complying fully with applicable antitrust rules in all countries in which it operates around the world."
Out-Law.com also asked Hitachi-LG Data Storage, Toshiba Samsung Storage Technology and Quanta
Storage for their reaction to the Commission's decision but did not receive a response.

Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU places a general ban on agreements between undertakings that affect EU trade where those agreements "have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the internal market".

According to the Commission, the eight companies discussed their intended bidding strategies for contracts to supply Dell and Hewlett Packard with ODDs for the computers they made. The companies also "shared the results of procurement tenders and exchanged other commercially sensitive information concerning ODDs used in laptops and desktops" and "organised a network of parallel bilateral contacts that pursued a single plan to avoid aggressive competition in procurement tenders organised by Dell and HP", the regulator said.

"The companies were aware that their behaviour was illegal and tried to conceal their contacts and to evade detection of their arrangements," the Commission said. "For example, they avoided naming the competitors concerned in their internal correspondence but used abbreviations or generic names."

It said. Some of them met in places where they could not be easily spotted, including in parking lots or cinemas,"The cartelists also avoided leaving traces of anticompetitive arrangements by preferring
face-to-face meetings and ensured that the competitors' discussions were not revealed to customers

CO     eucmm : European Commission | hewlp : Hewlett-Packard Company | pcltd : Dell Inc | sansel : Samsung
Electronics Co Ltd
IN       i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | ielec : Consumer Electronics | itech : Technology


Page 35 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
NS     c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | gcrim : Crime/Courts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
IPD    Legal
PUB   National Iraqi News Agency
AN     Document NAIRAQ0020151029ebaq0008n































































Page 36 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE           online news
HD          Quanta Storage to be fined by EC WC          225 words
PD           28 October 2015
SN           ETMAG.com
SC           FMETMA
LA           English
CY           Copyright 2015 EUROTRADE Media Co., Ltd., All Rights Reserved.

LP
Optical disc drive (ODD) maker Quanta Storage will be  fined EUR7.146 million (US$7.93 million) by the European Commission (EC) under the European Union for participating in a  cartel of eight ODD vendors, ODMs and OEMs, according to the Board of Foreign Trade (BOFT) under Taiwan's Ministry of Economic Affairs.

The eight ODD players involved are Philips, Hitachi-LG Data Storage, Toshiba Samsung Storage Technology, Sony, Sony Optiarc, Lite-On Technology, Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions (a joint venture between Philips and Lite-On Technology) and Quanta Storage.

TD
EC's anti-trust investigation revealed that the eight companies formed a  cartel during June 2004 and November 2008 to communicate with one another about their bidding strategies, share results of tenders, and exchange commercially sensitive information concerning open tenders organized by Dell and Hewlett-Packard to procure ODDs used in notebooks and desktops, in an attempt to avoid aggressive competition, BOFT said.

Since Philips, Lite-On Technology and Philips & Lite-On Digital Solutions were the first to reveal the existence of the  cartel, the three companies have full immunity from  fines according to EC's 2006
Leniency Notice, BOFT indicated.
In response, Quanta Storage indicated that the result is not final and it will appeal to a court in the
European Union.

CO          lteong : Lite-on Technology Corporation | snyco : Sony Corporation

IN            i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3454 : Personal Electronics | icomp : Computing | icper : Computer Peripherals | icph : Computer Hardware | ielec : Consumer Electronics | itech : Technology
PUB        Eurotrade (HK) Ltd.
AN           Document FMETMA0020151028ebas0000v

EU LEGAL TRENDS
Insight EU Issue Monitor, 20 November 2015, 10482 words, (English)
In this edition:# COMPETITION ENFORCEMENTPerspectives on Europe - Speech by EU
Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager# JHA COUNCILMain results of the EU Justice and Home Affairs Council, 20/11/2015
Document DPAEUM0020151123ebbk00006

Search Summary

Text                                 ("european commission" or "Eu commission") and fine* and (cartel or fixing) and disc and (drive* or cd or dvd) not celex* not interfax*
Date                                21/09/2015 to 21/11/2015
Source                            All Sources
Author                             All Authors

Page 37 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Company                        All Companies
Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                22
Timestamp                      12 April 2019 7:33 PM





























































Page 38 of 38 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
