




EU: GDF Gas Deals With Eni , Enel Restrict Competition ....................................................................................... 2
EU regulators rule contracts between French, Italian gas companies broke competition rules ............................... 3
EC sends warning to the rest of Europe with GDF destination clause decision....................................................... 4
PLATTS - European Commission rules GDF , Enel , Eni agreed illegal gas deals.................................................. 5
Contents .................................................................................................................................................................. 6 (EU) EU/ COMPETITION : Commission feels clauses in GDF - ENI and GDF - ENEL ( gas ) contracts are in
breach of competition rules ...................................................................................................................................... 8
EU VS GAZ DE FRANCE OVER ENI , ENEL GAS CONTRACTS .......................................................................... 9
Commission warns GDF over its destination clause decision ................................................................................ 11

ENERGY/ COMPETITION : COMMISSION PULLS UP TERRITORIAL RESTRICTIONS IN GAZ DE FRANCE CONTRACTS ......................................................................................................................................................... 12
GASBrussels rules to end territory restrictions. ..................................................................................................... 13
EC rules GDF , Enel , Eni agreed illegal gas deals ................................................................................................ 14
EC slams Eni / Enel / GDF ..................................................................................................................................... 15









































Page 1 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        EU: GDF Gas Deals With Eni, Enel Restrict  Competition
WC       261 words
PD        26 October 2004
ET         05:29 PM
SN        Dow Jones International News
SC        DJI
LA         English
CY        (c) 2004 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LP
BRUSSELS (Dow Jones)--The  European Union Commission Tuesday ruled gas contracts between state-owned  Gaz de France (4774.FR) and Italy's Eni SpA (E) and  Enel SpA (EN) are illegal.

Under the contracts, Gaz de France transported natural gas from northern  Europe through France for Eni, and swapped liquified natural gas bought in Nigeria for Enel. Both contracts included a clause which prohibited the Italian firms from selling the  gas in France.

TD
In a statement, the E.U. Commission said these terms were anti-competitive. They "restrict the territory in which the parties could use the gas and was aimed at segmenting national markets."

Regulators didn't impose any fines since the industry is in the process of being deregulated and the parties have stopped the illegal practice.
But E.U.  Competition Commissioner Mario Monti said he acted to insure the success of deregulation. Regulators simultaneously warned they would display "much less clemency" if it found other  gas deals
with such restrictive clauses.

E.U. regulators in the past have investigated import energy contracts. In 2003, regulators reached an agreement with Gazprom OAO (GSPBEX.RS) to allow  Eni to resell the  gas it bought from the Russian company. And in 2002, the E.U. Commission reached an agreement with Nigeria LNG to delete a clause preventing one of its European customers to resell the  gas outside its national borders.
-By Steve de Bonvoisin, Dow Jones Newswires; +32-2-285-01-37; steve.debonvoisin@dowjones.com [
26-10-04 1534GMT ]

CO        enel : Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Elettrica SpA | eni : ENI S.p.A. | gazfr : GDF Suez SA
IN          i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i162 : Gas Utilities | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities

NS        eec : European Union | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | mcrntg : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Product Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | c33 : Contracts/Orders | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        italy : Italy | fra : France | russ : Russia | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | ussrz : CIS Countries | weurz : Western Europe
IPC       EWR
PUB      Dow Jones & Company Inc.
AN        Document DJI0000020041026e0aq000v2






Page 2 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     EU regulators rule contracts between French, Italian gas companies broke competition rules
WC     155 words
PD      26 October 2004
ET      06:28 PM
SN      Associated Press Newswires
SC      APRS
LA      English
CY      (c) 2004. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) - The European Commission ruled Tuesday that  gas contracts between state-owned  Gaz de France and Italy's Eni SpA and Enel SpA are illegal.

Under the contracts, Gaz de France transported natural  gas from northern  Europe through France for Eni, and swapped liquefied natural gas bought in Nigeria for  Enel. Both contracts included a clause which prohibited the Italian firms from selling the  gas in France.

TD
Regulators didn't impose any fines since the industry is in the process of being deregulated and the parties have stopped the illegal practice. But they warned they would display "much less clemency" if it found other  gas deals with such restrictive clauses.

In a statement, the  commission said such contract was anticompetitive because it "restricts the territory in which the parties could use the  gas and was aimed at segmenting national markets."

RF      7
CO     enel : Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Elettrica SpA | eni : ENI S.p.A. | gazfr : GDF Suez SA
IN       i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities

NS      eucom : European Commission | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | c34 : Competition Issues | c33 : Contracts/Orders | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE      italy : Italy | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western
Europe | fra : France
IPD     Financial/Business
IPC     tagapfin
PUB   Press Association, Inc.
AN      Document APRS000020041026e0aq0089f
















Page 3 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD     EC sends warning  to the rest of Europe with GDF destination clause decision
WC    417 words
PD     27 October 2004
SN     European Spot Gas Markets
SC     EUSPOT
LA     English
CY     (c) 2004 PH Energy Analysis Ltd

LP
The European Commission (EC) has made two formal decisions accusing  Gaz de France of contravening EU competition law by including destination clauses - which prohibit the re-selling of  gas bought under long-term supply contract. The contracts, with Italy’s ENI and ENEL were concluded in 1997 and prevented the two companies from using  gas transported by GDF to supply French customers. The
EC has decided not to impose fines as the situation in France has since greatly improved. However, it said it has adopted the decisions in order to make the legal position clear to other companies and warn them any similar restrictions on new contracts will be dealt with “much more harshly.” It said its decisions were particularly important given that the EU liberalisation policy has so far been slow to deliver concrete benefits. The  ENI, GDF contract allowed  ENI to transport  gas it had bought in northern  Europe via France to the French/Swiss border (Oltingue).

TD
The contract contained a clause forbidding  ENI from selling the  gas until it had left French territory. The ENEL, GDF contract concerned a swap transaction for LNG bought by  ENEL in Nigeria. It contained a clause restricting  ENEL to using the  gas only in Italy. The EC judged that the aim of these clauses was to protect a national market and to stop French customers being supplied by  ENI and ENEL, thus preventing competition contravening EC law. The EU  Commission has had a protracted struggle against the inclusion of destination clauses in supply contract with companies outside the  European Community, despite their being ruled illegal under EU law. Its recent successes include Nigeria’s NLNGs agreement to remove all such clauses in 2002, as well as the agreement between Russia’s Gazprom and Italy’s  Eni at the end of 2003. Nevertheless, the  Commission confirmed on Wednesday that it has two ongoing investigations into territorial restrictions in contracts between Gazprom and two European importers, while admitting that negotiations with Algeria remain slow. Algeria’s state-owned oil and gas company
Sonatrach continues to resist the EU’s attempts to remove destination clauses from Sonatrach’s long-term supply contracts with  European companies. Sonatrach, which has been pushing for profit-splitting mechanisms (PSMs) as a possible replacement for its destination clauses (PSMs are also deemed
anti-competitive under EU law), has conceded that none of its new long-term deals will contain such clauses. LB/JA

CO    enel : Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Elettrica SpA | gazfr : GDF Suez SA | gzprm : OAO Gazprom | sontrc : Sonatrach | eni : ENI S.p.A.
IN      i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities |
i162 : Gas Utilities | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
NS     eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB  Heren Energy Ltd
AN     Document EUSPOT0020041027e0ar00003














Page 4 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     PLATTS - European Commission rules GDF, Enel, Eni agreed illegal gas deals. WC     196 words
PD      27 October 2004
ET      01:09 PM
SN      Platts Commodity News
SC      PLATT
LA      English
CY      Copyright 2004. Platts. All Rights Reserved.

LP
London (Platts)-27Oct2004/708 am EDT/1108 GMT Italy's  Enel and Eni and Gaz de France blocked competition in agreeing two deals where the Italian firms were forbidden from selling gas in France, the European Commission ruled Tuesday. In 1997,  GDF agreed to transport  Eni's gas through France to the Swiss border as long as the  gas was not sold in France. The French firm agreed an LNG swap deal with Enel in the same year; again the contract contained a clause preventing  Enel from reselling the  gas on GDF's home turf. "The Commission concluded that these two clauses restricted the territory in which the parties could use the gas and attempted to close national markets," the EC's competition directorate said. "Notably they prevented  gas consumers in France from buying  gas from Enel or Eni." The EC decided not to impose a fine, because the second  gas directive had brought about greater liberalization.

TD
However, the EC added: "After this decision, if the  Commission establishes the existence of the same type of restrictions in  gas contracts, it will show much less clemency."

CO     gazfr : GDF Suez SA | eni : ENI S.p.A.
IN       i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities
NS      eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations

RE      italy : Italy | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western Europe
IPC     London
PUB   Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.
AN      Document PLATT00020041027e0ar0038p






















Page 5 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     Contents
WC    523 words
PD     28 October 2004
SN     Agence Europe
SC     AGEU
LA      English
CY     Not Available for Re-Dissemination, except as permitted by your subscriber agreement. (c) Agence
Europe, Brussels 2004. All rights reserved.

LP
THE DAY IN POLITICS



TD
* (EU) EP/BARROSO  COMMISSION: President-designate fails to put team forward for parliamentary vote and acknowledges more time is needed - Balkenende calls on Prodi  Commission to stay if necessary - Borrell calls on Barroso to come up with new proposal as soon as possible but without binding deadlines (some MEPs insist on vote in November)

* (EU) EU/TURKEY: After meeting with Mr Schröder and Mr Erdogan, Mr Chirace reiterates his willingness to open negotiations with Ankara, but stresses that Turkey may not want to "go all the way with efforts needed to adapt"
* (EU) EU/TURKEY/KURDS
* (EU) EU/MIDDLE EAST

GENERAL NEWS



* (EU) EP/EUROPEAN COUNCIL: Lisbon Strategy and 'The Hague Programme' on JHA agenda, but also coming closer to citizens and managing change, Atzo Nicolaï says - Günter Verheugen believes  Europe must be largest area of freedom as well as most competitive economy - Meeting with Iraqi Prime Minister
* (EU) EP/BUDGET 2005: Parliament is set on funding policies seen as priorities for EU - agreement with
Council on agencies later on
* (EU) EU/RUSSIA:  Europeans  and Russians stress negotiation on visas and re-entry will take time
* (EU) EU/JHA COUNCIL

* (EU) EU/LISBON STRATEGY/KOK REPORT: To relaunch Lisbon, immediate action is needed in science, entrepeneurship, internal market, labour market and sustainable environment
* (EU) EU/ECONOMY:  Commission tables on 2% growth in  euro zone and 2.3% growth for EU in 2005 -
3% deficit or more next year for France, Germany, Greece, Portugal and Italy - Oil price problem

* (EU) EU/ENERGY:  Commission announces actions to harmonise in long term, methods for funding decommissioning of nuclear plants

* (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Commission feels clauses in GDF-ENI and GDF-ENEL (gas) contracts are in breach of competition rules
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Commission allows Oracle's takeover bid for PeopleSoft
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Commission allows Continental to acquire Phoenix

* (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Commission fines Coats and Prym for cartel on haberdashery market
Page 6 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Commission partially closes investigation into contracts between  European
pay-TVS with Hollywood studios

* (EU) EU/GMO:  Commission authorises marketing of Monsanto's genetically modified NK 603 maize for food and feed
* (EU) EU/AGRICULTURE:  Commission suggests tariff quotas should be set for sugar imports from
Western Balkans
* (EU) EU/TAXATION:  Commission proposes regulation for interpreting VAT rules

* (EU) EU/INTERNAL MARKET: Italy is instructed to authorise foreign guides to work at major tourist sites such as Venice, Rome and Florence
* (EU) ACP/EU: Constructive meeting of last joint trade committee chaired by Pascal Lamy
* (EU) EU/HUMANITARIAN AID: 12.5 million EUR for victims of drought in Horn of Africa

* (EU) EU/MARITIME SAFETY:  European Commission prepares proposed directive on intermodal safety

* (EU) EU/TRANSPORT COUNCIL: Priority for controls and sanctions to boost road safety - Difference in situations for EU15 and EU25

* (EU) EU/EMPLOYERS/SUMMIT: In letter to Jan Peter Balkenende, Unice President Jürgen Strube appeals for more growth, jobs and competitiveness

* (EU) EU/UEAPME/SUMMIT: Hans-Werner Müller calls on Jan Peter Balkenende to focus on economic growth to save Lisbon
* (EU) EP/PES/LISBON STRATEGY
* €: VALUE IN DIFFERENT CURRENCIES ON 27/10/2004
CO     enel : Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Elettrica SpA | pplsft : Peoplesoft Inc

IN       i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing
NS     eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB   Agence Europe SA
AN     Document AGEU000020041028e0as00001




























Page 7 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Commission feels clauses in GDF-ENI and GDF-ENEL (gas) contracts are in breach of competition rules
WC    289 words
PD     28 October 2004
SN     Agence Europe
SC     AGEU
LA      English
CY     Not Available for Re-Dissemination, except as permitted by your subscriber agreement. (c) Agence
Europe, Brussels 2004. All rights reserved.

LP
Brussels, 27/10/2004 (Agence  Europe) - The European Commission has published two decisions that the territorial restriction clauses contained in contained in two transport/services contracts concluded by GDF (Gaz De France), with ENI and ENEL respectively, just before the  European gas market was liberalised in 1997, are in breach of article 81 of the Treaty (agreements). These are the first decisions the Commission has taken in the  gas sector.

The GDF-ENI contract related to the transportation of natural  gas bought by ENI in northern Europe. GDF carries out the transportation on French territory up to the Swiss border. Then, ENI was forced to sell this gas only "downstream of the re-delivery point", i.e. after having left French soil.

TD
The GDF-ENEL contract aims to swap liquid natural  gas bough by ENEL in Nigeria and contained a clause obliging ENEL only to sue the  gas in Italy.

According to the  Commission, both of these clauses restrict the territory in which the parties can use the gas, and aim to cut off national markets by preventing consumers in France from purchasing supply from ENEL and ENI. This behaviour is in breach of  European competition rules, and is all the more serious as territorial restrictions are one of the main practices which continue the isolation of the European gas market and contribute to a lack of fluidity in the sector. Nonetheless, the Commission decided not to impose any sanctions, taking account of the fact that the entry into force last August of the second "gas" directive implied a bottom-up change in the trade practices of the parties.

CO     enel : Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Elettrica SpA | gazfr : GDF Suez SA | eni : ENI S.p.A.
IN      i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities
NS     eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB   Agence Europe SA
AN     Document AGEU000020041028e0as0000d


















Page 8 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE       Energy Policy and Tariffs
HD       EU VS GAZ DE FRANCE OVER ENI, ENEL GAS CONTRACTS WC      505 words
PD       28 October 2004
SN       Staffetta News
SC       STAFF
LA       English
CY       Copyright 2004 RIP Srl

LP
On Oct. 26, the EU Commission reached two formal decisions. One of these, the first of its kind concerning the natural gas sector, affirmed that territorial restriction clauses infringe article 81 of the EC Treaty. The clauses in question until recently figured in two contracts, one dealing with transportation and the other with services, concluded in 1997 by  Gaz de France (Gdf) with Eni and Enel respectively. The two clauses prohibited  Eni and Enel from selling in France the natural gas which Gdf transported on
their behalf. The clauses thus prevented French consumers from obtaining their supplies from the two Italian operators and constituted a sizeable obstacle to the creation of a genuinely competitive and integrated  gas market on a European level.

TD
The Gdf-Eni contract concerns the transportation of  gas purchased by Eni in northern Europe. Gdf transports it across French territory to the border with Switzerland. The contract contained a clause obliging Eni to market the  gas exclusively “downstream of the redelivery point,” i.e. after leaving France.

The Gdf-Enel contract concerns the swap of liquefied natural  gas (Lng) purchased by Enel in Nigeria. It contained a clause which required  Enel to use the  gas only in Italy.

The Commission concluded that the two clauses restricted the territory on which the parties could use the gas and were designed to partition national markets by preventing consumers of gas in France from obtaining supplies from  Enel and Eni. They therefore constituted a restriction of competition.

The two decisions adopted by the  Commission are particularly important, a communiqué explains, in consideration of the fact that in recent years the  European gas business has begun a process of liberalization whose benefits are taking a long time to materialize. Territorial restrictions are one of the key elements in a set of practices which perpetuate the partitioning of the  European market and contribute to a lack of fluidity in the sector.

The Commission has decided, nevertheless, not to impose fines. Among other factors, it has borne in mind that this stage of the liberalization process, which ended with the entry into force of the second  gas directive in August 2004, has involved a profound change in the commercial practices of the operators present on the market.

The Commission considered that it had an interest in making the decisions even if the parties had already terminated the infringement, since it wanted to clarify the law for the benefit not only of the parties but of all the other firms operating in the sector. Clearly therefore, if, having adopted these decisions, it should find restrictions of the same type in other  gas contracts, it will show much less clemency.

In the past, the Commission has also investigated clauses of this type contained in import contracts between European operators and producers outside the EU. It terminated through amicable settlements a proceeding concerning the Nigerian exporter Nlng and another proceeding involving  Eni and Russia's Gazprom.

RF       3896
CO      eni : ENI S.p.A.
IN        i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas

Page 9 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
NS       eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE       fra : France | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western
Europe
IPD      Natural Gas
PUB    Rivista Italiana Petrolio Srl
AN       Document STAFF00020090317e0as00261






























































Page 10 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      Commission warns GDF over its destination clause decision
WC    409 words
PD     30 October 2004
SN     European Gas Markets
SC     EURGAS
LA     English
CY     (c) 2004 PH Energy Analysis Ltd.

LP
The European Commission (EC) has made two formal decisions accusing  Gaz de France of contravening EU competition law by including destination clauses - which prohibit the re-selling of  gas bought under long-term supply contract. The contracts, with Italy’s  ENI and ENEL, were concluded in
1997 and prevented the two companies from using  gas transported by GDF to supply French customers. The EC has decided not to impose fines as the situation in France has since greatly improved. However, it said it has adopted the decisions in order to make the legal position clear to other companies and warn them any similar restrictions on new contracts will be dealt with “much more harshly.” It said its decisions were particularly important given that the EU liberalisation policy has so far been slow to deliver concrete benefits. The  ENI, GDF contract allowed  ENI to transport  gas it had bought in northern  Europe via France to the French/Swiss border (Oltingue).

TD
The contract contained a clause forbidding  ENI from selling the  gas until it had left French territory. The ENEL, GDF contract concerned a swap transaction for LNG bought by  ENEL in Nigeria. It contained a clause restricting  ENEL to using the  gas only in Italy. The EC judged that the aim of these clauses was to protect a national market and to stop French customers being supplied by  ENI and ENEL, thus preventing competition contravening EC law. The EU  Commission has had a protracted struggle against the inclusion of destination clauses in supply contract with companies outside the  European Community, despite their being ruled illegal under EU law. Its recent successes include Nigeria’s NLNGs agreement to remove all such clauses in 2002, as well as the agreement between Russia’s Gazprom and Italy’s  Eni at the end of 2003. Nevertheless, the  Commission confirmed on that it has two ongoing investigations into territorial restrictions in contracts between Gazprom and two European importers, while admitting that negotiations with Algeria remain slow. Algeria’s state-owned oil and gas company Sonatrach continues to resist the EU’s attempts to remove destination clauses from Sonatrach’s long-term supply contracts with European companies. Sonatrach, which has been pushing for profit-splitting mechanisms (PSMs) as a possible replacement for its destination clauses (PSMs are also deemed anti-competitive under EU law), has conceded that none of its new long-term deals will contain such clauses.

CO    enel : Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Elettrica SpA | gzprm : OAO Gazprom | sontrc : Sonatrach | eni : ENI S.p.A. | gazfr : GDF Suez SA
IN      i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities |
i162 : Gas Utilities | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
NS     eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB  Heren Energy Ltd
AN     Document EURGAS0020050401e0au0003v












Page 11 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     ENERGY/COMPETITION: COMMISSION PULLS UP TERRITORIAL RESTRICTIONS IN GAZ DE          FRANCE CONTRACTS
WC     382 words
PD      30 October 2004
SN      Europe Information
SC      EURREP
VOL   2908
LA      English
CY      (c) 2004 European Report.

LP
Territorial restriction clauses for the carriage of  gas are illegal, the European Commission confirmed on October 26 in two  competition-policy rulings concerning Gaz de France. Concluded in 1997, the contracts in question apply to a transmission service for two Italian companies,  ENI and Enel. The Italian energy groups were barred from selling natural  gas in France that  GdF carried on their behalf. Since these clauses effectively prevent French consumers from seeking supplies from the two Italian companies, they are a sizeable obstacle to a genuinely competitive,  European-wide gas market, according to the  Commission.

TD
We did not have to wait a long time after "Energy Day" for the  Commission to bare its teeth. The September 21 meetings between regulatory and  competition authorities and the  Commission services resulted in a guideline being formulated with a view to improving laws on liberalisation. As far as the Commission is concerned, the territorial restrictions represent one of the cornerstones of all policies that continue to fragment the  European market and contribute to the lack of flexibility in the sector.

This time round, the  Commission has nonetheless refrained from handing out fines, because the relevant companies have mended their ways. However, the two rulings are designed to underline case-law in this area and the  Commission has pledged to be less lenient the next time a company breaks the rules.
Illegal contracts.
The GdF-ENI contract covers the transmission of natural  gas ENI bought in Northern  Europe. GdF
carries the gas through France as far as the Swiss border. The contract featured a clause compelling ENI
to sell the gas solely downstream from the re-delivery point: after leaving French territory. The  GdF-Enel
contract applies to the swap of liquefied natural gas Enel bought in Nigeria. This included a clause
compelling ENEL to use the  gas solely in Italy. The Commission ruled that the two clauses restricted the
territory where the parties to the contracts could use the gas and sought to fragment national markets,
primarily by preventing natural  gas consumers in France from seeking supplies from  Enel and ENI. They
are therefore tantamount to a restriction to  competition within the meaning of Article 81 of the EU Treaty.

CO     enel : Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Elettrica SpA | gazfr : GDF Suez SA | eni : ENI S.p.A.
IN       i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities
NS      eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE      italy : Italy | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western
Europe
PUB   Europe Information Service SA
AN      Document EURREP0020041102e0au00013






Page 12 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE      News
HD     GASBrussels rules to end territory restrictions. BY      Paul Newton
WC     268 words
PD      5 November 2004
SN      Utility Week
SC      UTILWE
PG     9
LA      English
CY      (c) Copyright 2004. Reed Business Information Limited. All rights reserved.

LP
by Trevor Dooley

The European Commission has ruled that territorial restriction clauses in  gas contracts breach European competition law. Clauses that restrict activity in specified areas have been condemned by the Commission for slowing down liberalisation.

TD
The ruling emerged from a decision by the  Commission on now terminated clauses in two arrangements between Gaz de France (GDF) and Italian energy groups  Enel and Eni, which prohibited the Italian firms from selling in France the gas GDF transported on their behalf.

The Commission said the clauses constituted a restriction of  competition under European Union laws and that the decision had been taken to clarify the law for everyone, even though the parties had ended the infringements.

'Territorial restrictions are one of the key elements which perpetuate the partitioning of the  European market and contribute to lack of fluidity in the sector,' the  Commission said. It added that the benefits of market liberalisation were 'taking a long time to materialise'.

On the grounds that  gas firms had changed their commercial prices since the enforcement of the second gas directive in August, the  Commission did not fine  GDF, Enel or Eni. But it warned of 'much less clemency' should other firms include territorial restrictions in future contracts.

The GDFdeals were concluded in 1997. Under the one with  Eni, GDFtransported gas across France to the Swiss border.Eni was obliged to sell the gas only after it left France. The GDF/Enel deal was a swap of Nigerian liquefied natural  gas bought by Enel, which it was required to sell only in Italy.

CO     gazfr : GDF Suez SA
IN       i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities
NS      eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE      uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
PUB   Reed Business Information Limited
AN      Document UTILWE0020041104e0b500016












Page 13 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE         GAS: EU
HD       EC rules GDF, Enel, Eni agreed illegal gas deals
WC       189 words
PD        5 November 2004
SN        EU Energy SC        EUENRG PG       9
VOL     Number 94
LA        English
CY        Copyright 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

LP
Italian utilities  Enel and Eni and Gaz de France blocked competition in agreeing two deals where the
Italian firms were forbidden from selling gas in France, the European Commission has ruled.

In 1997,  GDF agreed to transport  Eni's gas through France to the Swiss border as long as the  gas was not sold in France. The French firm agreed an LNG swap deal with Enel in the same year; again the contract contained a clause preventing  Enel from reselling the  gas on GDF's home turf. "The Commission concluded that these two clauses restricted the territory in which the parties could use the gas and attempted to close national markets," the EC's  competition directorate general said.

TD
"Notably they prevented  gas consumers in France from buying  gas from Enel or Eni." The EC decided not to impose a fine, because the second  gas directive had brought about greater liberalization. However, the EC added: "After this decision, if the  Commission establishes the existence of the same type of restrictions in  gas contracts, it will show much less clemency."

CO       gazfr : GDF Suez SA | eni : ENI S.p.A.
IN         i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities
NS        eec : European Union | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        italy : Italy | eurz : Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western
Europe
PUB     McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
AN        Document EUENRG0020041118e0b50000p





















Page 14 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE           EUROPE/CENTRAL ASIA: EU-France-Italy/Regulation-Competition
HD          EC slams Eni/Enel/GDF WC         188 words
PD          5 November 2004
SN          International Gas Report
SC          INGS
PG          8
LA          English
CY          Copyright 2004 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

LP
Italy's  Enel and Eni and Gaz de France blocked competition in agreeing two deals which prevented the Italian firms selling gas in France, the European Commission ruled. In 1997,  GDF agreed to transport  Eni's gas through France to the Swiss border as long as the  gas was not sold in France.

The French firm agreed a liquefied natural gas swap deal with Enel in the same year; again the contract contained a clause preventing Enel from reselling the gas on GDF's home turf.

TD
"The commission concluded that these two clauses restricted the territory in which the parties could use the gas and attempted to close national markets," the EC's competition directorate said. "Notably they prevented  gas consumers in France from buying  gas from Enel or Eni."

The commission decided not to impose a fine, because the second gas directive had brought about greater liberalization. However, it added: "After this decision, if the commission establishes the existence of the same type of restrictions in  gas contracts, it will show much less clemency."

CO         gazfr : GDF Suez SA | eni : ENI S.p.A.
IN           i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities
NS          ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
RE          italy : Italy | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western
Europe
PUB       McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
AN          Document INGS000020041118e0b500007

Search Summary

Text                                 commission and ((gdf or gaz de france) and enel and eni) and euro* and gas and competition not "mergers and takeovers" not "The deadline for privatising Petrom" not "In balancing environmental concerns with ensuring security of supplythe EU must
take care not to miss its emissions targets through an excessive long-term reliance on" not "M&Aactivity may have slowed down in Europe over the past year" not "Steve Smith, managing director of markets at Ofgem, said long-term or legacy contracts"
Date                                26/09/2004 to 26/11/2004
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions

Page 15 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Language                       All Languages
Results Found                12
Timestamp                      5 April 2019 2:40 PM



































































Page 16 of 16 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
