




Taiwan tycoon raps EU for exempting Samsung from LCD price fixing................................................................... 2
LCD PANEL CARTEL : TAIWAN TYCOON HITS BACK OVER EU FINES ............................................................ 4 [Editorial] LCD scandal ............................................................................................................................................. 5
Commission Fines LCD Panel Producers for Price Fixing Cartel ............................................................................ 7
Taiwan: Taiwan tycoon raps EU for exempting Samsung from LCD price fixing ..................................................... 9 (EDITORIAL from the Korea Herald on Dec. 14) ................................................................................................... 11
Taiwan/European Union: Taiwan tycoon raps EU for exempting Samsung from LCD price fixing ........................ 13
Liquid Crystal Dismay As " LCD " Cartel Is Fined Almost €650,000,000 By Commission ..................................... 15
Rise in EU antitrust settlements expected.............................................................................................................. 17

















































Page 1 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD            Taiwan tycoon  raps EU for exempting Samsung from LCD price fixing
WC           423 words
PD            13 December 2010
SN            Yonhap English News
SC            YONH
LA             English
CY            © Copyright 2010 Yonhap News Agency. All rights reserved.

LP
By Kim Young-gyo

HONG KONG, Dec. 13 (Yonhap) -- The head of Taiwanese electronics giant Foxconn Technology Group has questioned the validity of a European Union (EU) decision to exempt Samsung Electronics Co. from fines for fixing LCD panel prices, Taiwanese media reported Monday.

TD
The EU competition watchdog's decided recently to  fine South Korea's LG Display and four Taiwanese manufacturers a combined 649 million euros (US$863 million) for  fixing  prices of the flat-screen panels between 2001 and 2006.

Samsung Electronics Co., the world's largest LCD supplier, which was among the companies in the price-fixing  cartel, was exempted from the fine because it informed the EU of the  cartel, according to the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union.

"If the No. 1 and No. 2 makers did not lead in  fixing  prices, would Taiwan's No. 3 and No. 4 carry any weight?" Gou was quoted as telling reporters, arguing that Samsung Electronics and LG Display were leading the price  fixing  case, with Taiwanese makers only collaborating with them.

Gou criticized Samsung by saying it has only informed the EU authorities of the improprieties as part of a scheme to beat its Taiwanese rivals. "(They) are resorting to all means possible in order to crush us," he said.

The European Commission said the LCD makers met about 60 times between October 2001 and February 2006, mostly in Taiwanese hotels, for what they called "the Crystal meetings," affecting  LCD panel sales worth about 7 billion euros in the European market.

In addition to  fixing  prices, they also exchanged information on their future production plans and other business plans, the commission said.
Foxconn does not make  LCD panels, but Gou is a major shareholder of Taiwan's Chimei Innolux
Corp., which was  fined 300 million euros in case.
The world's second-biggest  LCD maker, South Korea's LG Display, was  fined 215 million euros.
Three other Taiwanese makers -- AU Optronics, Chunghwa and HannStar -- were  fined 116.8 million,
9 million and 8.1 million euros, respectively.

Gou said the EU  fine was levied without giving Chimei a chance to defend itself, noting that the firm will take action by asking for the EU's clarification.

Au Optronics has said it will appeal the decision, while Chunghwa and HannStar have yet to declare their intentions.
Last Thursday, LG Display said that it may lodge an appeal. ygkim@yna.co.kr
(END)

20101213 1047 KST

Page 2 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
RF            2723ENG192010121351000DOWINIAPKYQNYO
CO            honhai : Hon Hai Precision Industry Company Limited | sansel : Samsung Electronics Co Ltd
IN             i3302 : Computers/Electronics | icomp : Computing | icper : Computer Peripherals | icph : Computer
Hardware | ielec : Electronics
RE            taiwan : Taiwan | skorea : South Korea | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific
PUB         Yonhap News Agency
AN            Document YONH000020101213e6cd000p1




























































Page 3 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      LCD PANEL CARTEL : TAIWAN TYCOON HITS BACK OVER EU FINES WC     317 words
PD      14 December 2010
SN      Europolitics SC      EURREP VOL   4103
LA      English
CY      Copyright 2010 Europe Information Service All Rights Reserved

LP
Terry Gou, the head of Foxconn, the largest manufacturer of technological products in the world, has bitterly denounced the massive  fines totalling €649 million slapped by the  European Commission on South Korean and Taiwanese liquid crystal display (LCD) panel makers for being involved in a
price-fixing cartel (see Europolitics 4100). The Taiwanese tycoon criticised the EU's decision to exempt Samsung Electronics from fines, accusing the South Korean giant of being the actual organiser of the cartel. The Commission did not fine Samsung on the grounds that the world's largest producer of  LCD panels had informed the EU investigators about the existence of the  cartel.

TD
Gou suggested that Samsung had only informed DG Competition of the violations in order to beat its Taiwanese rivals. He argued that South Korean Samsung and LG Display were leading in the price  fixing, and Taiwanese makers were only collaborating with them. The Koreans "are resorting to all means possible in order to crush us," added Gou, who controls Chimei Innolux Corp, which was  fined a total of
€300 million by the Commission. The Taiwanese entrepreneur said he was considering whether to appeal against the Commission's decision.

Joaquin Almunia, the commissioner in charge of competition, announced the  fines on 8 December, saying "foreign companies, like European ones, have the obligation to respect competition rules when they do business in Europe". The  LCD makers met about 60 times between October 2001 and February
2006, mostly in Taiwanese hotels, for what they called the 'Crystal meetings', said the Commission. The Commission also fined LG Display of South Korea (€215 million), and three other Taiwanese firms - AU Optronics (€117 million) , Chunghwa (€9 million) and HannStar (€8 million). LG Display acknowledged "the wrongful acts of the past". However, the company said it would "carefully consider" whether to challenge the decision in court.

RF      28458920101214
CO     acedis : AU Optronics Corporation | innldc : Chimei Innolux Corporation | sansel : Samsung Electronics
Co Ltd
IN       i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i34532 : Components for Electronic Goods | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
RE      skorea : South Korea | taiwan : Taiwan | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific
PUB   Europe Information Service SA
AN      Document EURREP0020101213e6ce0000j










Page 4 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE           Editorial
HD           [Editorial] LCD scandal
WC          600 words
PD           14 December 2010
SN           The Korea Herald
SC           KORHER
LA           English
CY           (c) 2010 The Korea Herald

LP
“Foreign companies, like European ones, need to understand that if they want to do business in Europe they must play fair. The companies concerned knew they were breaking competition rules and took steps to conceal their illegal behavior.” This humiliating admonition came from the European Commission as it levied huge fines on Korean and Taiwanese LCD makers last week for price-fixing.

Brussels’ announcement that carried harsh moral censure on Asian firms’ wrongdoings in the European market was astounding not only for the large  fines given to the accused firms but for the allegedly systematic manner with which the electronics makers operated a price  cartel for more than four years. Korea’s LG Display was slapped with 215 million euros and Taiwan’s Chimei Innolux with
300 million euros.

TD
The EU’s competition commissioner stated that  cartel members held monthly meetings in hotels in Taiwan to exchange business information, including production plans, and agree on prices. Aware that they were breaking competition rules, the commissioner said, the participants took steps to conceal
the results of the meetings and avoided written communication.

A further disturbing disclosure was that Samsung Electronics took part in the price-fixing  scheme but received full immunity because it actively cooperated with the EU’s investigation. The announcement revealed that Samsung “brought the  cartel to the Commission’s attention and provided valuable information to prove the infringement.” In short, Samsung was duly rewarded for its whistleblowing in this scandal. LG received partial immunity for offering evidence showing that the  cartel continued in
2006, according to the EU announcement.

In an unhappy consequence, meanwhile, Taiwanese firms directed complaints at Samsung for what they called an act of betrayal. Reports from Taipei said that the  European Commission’s action was touching off anti-Korean sentiments among the Taiwanese public.

The major shareholder of Chimei Innolux claimed that the South Korean electronics giant masterminded the price-fixing cartel and then informed European authorities of the improprieties to beat its Taiwanese rivals. The mayor of the prefecture near Taipei told the local council that he would reject Korean products in future official procurements. Business newspapers commented that Samsung lacked business virtues.

It is regrettable that sparks from the  European Commission’s action are hurting friendly ties between the two countries. We are reminded that only a month ago, the disqualification of a female taekwondo athlete in the Guangzhou Asian Games caused a wave of anti-Korean protests across Taiwan, for no other reason than that Korea is the origin of the martial art and has some influence on the Asian Taekwondo Federation.

We have no intention or factual grounds to defend Samsung about its behavior in the  LCD business in Europe but cannot simply accept Taiwanese firms’ claim that South Korean companies are resorting to all means possible to crush them in the global market. Having cooperated closely to win in the European market against Japanese rivals, the Taiwanese and Korean businessmen involved must know well what really caused the breakup of their price  cartel. It could either be a belated return to transparency or a preemptive strategy to beat the competition.


Page 5 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
To the Taiwanese people, we would like to urge them to look at things involving the two countries from the broader perspective of our common pursuits as the only countries in East Asia that have achieved democracy and economic development under the adversities of national division. The two countries deserve warmer friendship in a regional situation that has changed significantly from the time when Korea severed ties with Taiwan to open formal relations with Beijing.
CO          innldc : Chimei Innolux Corporation | eucmm : European Commission
IN            i3302 : Computers/Electronics | ielec : Electronics

NS           nedi : Editorial | eucom : European Commission | eec : European Union | ncat : Content Types | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE           taiwan : Taiwan | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz
: Eastern Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific
PUB        Herald Media Inc.
AN           Document KORHER0020101213e6ce001pe





















































Page 6 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      Commission Fines LCD Panel Producers for Price Fixing Cartel
BY       SJ Berwin's EU & Competition Team
WC     486 words
PD      14 December 2010
SN      Mondaq Business Briefing
SC      BBPUB
LA       English
CY      (c) 2010 Mondaq Ltd

LP
The European Commission ('Commission') has found that six non-European  LCD (liquid crystal display) panel producers have been operating a price  fixing cartel in breach of Article 101 TFEU.  Fines of just over €648 million have been imposed. The companies involved are: AU Optronics, Chimei InnoLux Corporation, Chunghwa Picture Tubes and HannStar Display Corporation all from Taiwan and Korean firms Samsung Electronics and LG Display.

TD
LCD panels are the main component of thin, flat monitors used in televisions, computer monitors and electronic notebooks. The Commission found that for over 4 years the companies met regularly, typically in Taiwan, to agree prices (including minimum prices and price ranges) and exchange information on future production, capacity utilisation and other commercial conditions. Evidence was found that the companies were aware that their actions breached competition rules and that they had taken steps to conceal their actions and the details of their meetings. In particular the Commission uncovered a document requesting the parties "to take care of security/confidentiality matters and to limit written communication".

This case is significant in that all the parties are based outside the European Economic Area ('EEA'). It was concluded that the  cartel activities had a direct impact on consumers in the EEA because the vast majority of  LCD panels used in goods such as televisions and computers which are sold in the EEA originate from Asia. Commission Vice President in charge of competition policy, Joaquín Almunia, stated that "foreign companies, like European ones, need to understand that if they want to do business in Europe they must play fair. The companies concerned knew they were breaking competition rules and took steps to conceal their illegal behaviour".

In setting the  fines the Commission took into account the duration and seriousness of the infringement as well as the level of each company's sales in the EEA. Samsung Electronics received full immunity by bringing the cartel to the Commission's attention and a number of the other companies benefited from reduced fine levels through their cooperation. Despite two requests, no reductions to the level of  fines were granted for financial hardship.

The Commission's  cartel fine tally for 2010 now stands at over € 3 billion (significantly higher than the figure of € 1.6 billion reached in 2009).
To view Community Week, Issue 501; 10th December 2010 in full, Click here.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.
Mr SJ Berwin's EU & Competition Team
SJ Berwin LLP
10 Queen St Place
London
EC4R 1BE


Page 7 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
UNITED KINGDOM
Tel: 2071112222
Fax: 2071112000
E-mail: Angela.patricot@sjberwin.com
URL: www.sjberwin.com
Click Here for related articles
(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2010 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 -  http://www.mondaq.com
CO      acedis : AU Optronics Corporation | handis : HannStar Display Corporation | sansel : Samsung
Electronics Co Ltd | bersj : SJ Berwin LLP
IN        i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i34532 : Components for Electronic Goods | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
NS      ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c34 : Competition Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
RE      eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe
IPD     Anti-trust/Competition
PUB    Mondaq Limited
AN      Document BBPUB00020101214e6ce000jz










































Page 8 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE      Business News
HD      Taiwan: Taiwan tycoon  raps EU for exempting Samsung from LCD price fixing
WC     411 words
PD      14 December 2010
SN      Thai News Service
SC      THAINS
LA      English
CY      (c) 2010 Thai News Service

LP
Section: Business News - The head of Taiwanese electronics giant Foxconn Technology Group has questioned the validity of a European Union (EU) decision to exempt Samsung Electronics Co. from  fines for fixing LCD panel prices, Taiwanese media reported Monday.

The EU competition watchdog's decided recently to  fine South Korea's LG Display and four Taiwanese manufacturers a combined 649 million euros (US$ 863 million) for  fixing  prices of the flat-screen panels between 2001 and 2006.

TD
Samsung Electronics Co., the world's largest LCD supplier, which was among the companies in the price-fixing  cartel, was exempted from the fine because it informed the EU of the  cartel, according to the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union.

"If the No. 1 and No. 2 makers did not lead in  fixing  prices, would Taiwan's No. 3 and No. 4 carry any weight?" Gou was quoted as telling reporters, arguing that Samsung Electronics and LG Display were leading the price  fixing  case, with Taiwanese makers only collaborating with them.

Gou criticized Samsung by saying it has only informed the EU authorities of the improprieties as part of a scheme to beat its Taiwanese rivals. "(They) are resorting to all means possible in order to crush us," he said.

The European Commission said the LCD makers met about 60 times between October 2001 and February 2006, mostly in Taiwanese hotels, for what they called "the Crystal meetings," affecting  LCD panel sales worth about 7 billion euros in the European market.

In addition to  fixing  prices, they also exchanged information on their future production plans and other business plans, the commission said.

Foxconn does not make  LCD panels, but Gou is a major shareholder of Taiwan's Chimei Innolux Corp., which was fined 300 million euros in case.

The world's second-biggest  LCD maker, South Korea's LG Display, was fined 215 million euros. Three other Taiwanese makers -- AU Optronics, Chunghwa and HannStar -- were fined 116.8 million, 9 million and 8.1 million euros, respectively. Gou said the EU  fine was levied without giving Chimei a chance to defend itself, noting that the firm will take action by asking for the EU's clarification.

Au Optronics has said it will appeal the decision, while Chunghwa and HannStar have yet to declare their intentions.
Last Thursday, LG Display said that it may lodge an appeal. - Yonhap

CO     honhai : Hon Hai Precision Industry Company Limited | eucmm : European Commission | sansel : Samsung Electronics Co Ltd
IN       i3302 : Computers/Electronics | icomp : Computing | icper : Computer Peripherals | icph : Computer
Hardware | ielec : Electronics
NS      eucom : European Commission | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations


Page 9 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
RE      taiwan : Taiwan | skorea : South Korea | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific
PUB   Thai News Service Co. Ltd.
AN      Document THAINS0020101213e6ce0008b


































































Page 10 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        (EDITORIAL from the Korea Herald on Dec. 14) WC       611 words
PD        14 December 2010
SN        Yonhap English News
SC        YONH
LA         English
CY        © Copyright 2010 Yonhap News Agency. All rights reserved.

LP
LCD Scandal

°Foreign companies, like European ones, need to understand that if they want to do business in Europe they must play fair. The companies concerned knew they were breaking competition rules and took steps to conceal their illegal behavior.± This humiliating admonition came from the European Commission as it levied huge fines on Korean and Taiwanese  LCD makers last week for price-fixing.

TD
Brussels¯ announcement that carried harsh moral censure on Asian firms¯ wrongdoings in the European market was astounding not only for the large  fines given to the accused firms but for the allegedly systematic manner with which the electronics makers operated a price  cartel for more than four years. Korea¯s LG Display was slapped with 215 million euros and Taiwan¯s Chimei Innolux with
300 million euros.

The EU¯s competition commissioner stated that  cartel members held monthly meetings in hotels in Taiwan to exchange business information, including production plans, and agree on prices. Aware that they were breaking competition rules, the commissioner said, the participants took steps to conceal the results of the meetings and avoided written communication.

A further disturbing disclosure was that Samsung Electronics took part in the price-fixing  scheme but received full immunity because it actively cooperated with the EU¯s investigation. The announcement revealed that Samsung °brought the  cartel to the Commission¯s attention and provided valuable information to prove the infringement.± In short, Samsung was duly rewarded for its whistleblowing in this scandal. LG received partial immunity for offering evidence showing that the  cartel continued in
2006, according to the EU announcement.

In an unhappy consequence, meanwhile, Taiwanese firms directed complaints at Samsung for what they called an act of betrayal. Reports from Taipei said that the  European Commission¯s action was touching off anti-Korean sentiments among the Taiwanese public.

The major shareholder of Chimei Innolux claimed that the South Korean electronics giant masterminded the price-fixing cartel and then informed European authorities of the improprieties to beat its
Taiwanese rivals. The mayor of the prefecture near Taipei told the local council that he would reject Korean products in future official procurements. Business newspapers commented that Samsung lacked business virtues.

It is regrettable that sparks from the  European Commission¯s action are hurting friendly ties between the two countries. We are reminded that only a month ago, the disqualification of a female taekwondo athlete in the Guangzhou Asian Games caused a wave of anti-Korean protests across Taiwan, for no other reason than that Korea is the origin of the martial art and has some influence on the Asian Taekwondo Federation.

We have no intention or factual grounds to defend Samsung about its behavior in the  LCD business in Europe but cannot simply accept Taiwanese firms¯ claim that South Korean companies are resorting to all means possible to crush them in the global market. Having cooperated closely to win in the European market against Japanese rivals, the Taiwanese and Korean businessmen involved must know well what really caused the breakup of their price  cartel. It could either be a belated return to transparency or a preemptive strategy to beat the competition.

Page 11 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
To the Taiwanese people, we would like to urge them to look at things involving the two countries from the broader perspective of our common pursuits as the only countries in East Asia that have achieved democracy and economic development under the adversities of national division. The two countries deserve warmer friendship in a regional situation that has changed significantly from the time when Korea severed ties with Taiwan to open formal relations with Beijing.
(END)
20101214 0738 KST
RF        4146ENG192010121450200OADOWINIAPKYQNYO
CO        innldc : Chimei Innolux Corporation | sansel : Samsung Electronics Co Ltd | eucmm : European
Commission
IN          i3302 : Computers/Electronics | ielec : Electronics
NS        eucom : European Commission | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations

RE        taiwan : Taiwan | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific
PUB      Yonhap News Agency
AN        Document YONH000020101213e6ce003xq















































Page 12 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE      General News
HD      Taiwan/European Union: Taiwan tycoon  raps EU for exempting Samsung from LCD price fixing
WC     413 words
PD      15 December 2010
SN      Thai News Service
SC      THAINS
LA      English
CY      (c) 2010 Thai News Service

LP
Section: General News - The head of Taiwanese electronics giant Foxconn Technology Group has questioned the validity of a European Union (EU) decision to exempt Samsung Electronics Co. from  fines for fixing LCD panel prices, Taiwanese media reported Monday.

The EU competition watchdog's decided recently to  fine South Korea's LG Display and four Taiwanese manufacturers a combined 649 million euros (US$ 863 million) for  fixing  prices of the flat-screen panels between 2001 and 2006.

TD
Samsung Electronics Co., the world's largest LCD supplier, which was among the companies in the price-fixing  cartel, was exempted from the fine because it informed the EU of the  cartel, according to the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union.

"If the No. 1 and No. 2 makers did not lead in  fixing  prices, would Taiwan's No. 3 and No. 4 carry any weight?" Gou was quoted as telling reporters, arguing that Samsung Electronics and LG Display were leading the price  fixing  case, with Taiwanese makers only collaborating with them.

Gou criticized Samsung by saying it has only informed the EU authorities of the improprieties as part of a scheme to beat its Taiwanese rivals. "(They) are resorting to all means possible in order to crush us," he said.

The European Commission said the LCD makers met about 60 times between October 2001 and February 2006, mostly in Taiwanese hotels, for what they called "the Crystal meetings," affecting  LCD panel sales worth about 7 billion euros in the European market.

In addition to  fixing  prices, they also exchanged information on their future production plans and other business plans, the commission said.

Foxconn does not make  LCD panels, but Gou is a major shareholder of Taiwan's Chimei Innolux Corp., which was fined 300 million euros in case.

The world's second-biggest  LCD maker, South Korea's LG Display, was fined 215 million euros. Three other Taiwanese makers -- AU Optronics, Chunghwa and HannStar -- were fined 116.8 million, 9 million and 8.1 million euros, respectively. Gou said the EU  fine was levied without giving Chimei a chance to defend itself, noting that the firm will take action by asking for the EU's clarification.

Au Optronics has said it will appeal the decision, while Chunghwa and HannStar have yet to declare their intentions.
Last Thursday, LG Display said that it may lodge an appeal. - PNA

CO     honhai : Hon Hai Precision Industry Company Limited | eucmm : European Commission | euruno : The
European Union | sansel : Samsung Electronics Co Ltd
IN       i3302 : Computers/Electronics | icomp : Computing | icper : Computer Peripherals | icph : Computer
Hardware | ielec : Electronics
NS      eec : European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations


Page 13 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
RE      taiwan : Taiwan | skorea : South Korea | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific
PUB   Thai News Service Co. Ltd.
AN      Document THAINS0020101214e6cf0001s


































































Page 14 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Liquid  Crystal Dismay As "LCD" Cartel Is Fined Almost  €650,000,000 By Commission
BY       David Flint
WC      476 words
PD       16 December 2010
SN       Mondaq Business Briefing
SC       BBPUB
LA        English
CY       (c) 2010 Mondaq Ltd

LP
The European Commission has issued fines against six liquid crystal display ("LCD") panel producers, totalling €648,925,000, for their participation in  cartel activity. Despite the fact that the majority of the infringing conduct took place in Taiwan, the Commission nonetheless ruled that the companies' illegal conduct had an adverse effect on consumers in Europe.

The LCD panel market is not insignificant. Indeed, such technology has become increasingly utilised in many new and developed products, including televisions, computer monitors and various handheld electronic devices.

TD
From October 2001 to February 2006, the  cartel members agreed various aspects of pricing policy, including price ranges and minimum prices, as well as exchanging information in relation to production and production capacity. The undertakings involved in this anti-competitive conduct included South Korean firms, Samsung Electronics and LG Display, as well as four firms from Taiwan, namely, AU Optronics, Chimei InnoLux Corporation, Chunghwa Picture Tubes, and HannStar Display Corporation.

Despite the gravity of the infringement, Samsung Electronics, as the first to come forward, received full immunity from  fines under the Commission's leniency procedure. The leniency policy aims to encourage those involved in anti-competitive practices to come clean, which, in turn, provides the Commission with vital information to help enable it to prove the infringement.

However, the benefit of the Commission's leniency policy was not restricted to Samsung. Indeed, to reflect high levels of cooperation with the Commission's investigation, LG Display, AU Optronics and Chunghwa Picture Tubes all received reductions in  fines, ranging from 50% to 5%.

Furthermore, LG Display also received immunity from all  fines attributable to cartel conduct after 2005, as they were the first party to come forward with evidence showing that the cartel had operated after that date.

This case serves to demonstrate the wide range of incentives offered through the Commission's leniency policy in return for full cooperation and disclosure. However, notwithstanding leniency's appeal, competition compliance remains the ultimate goal. Indeed, it is important to remember that, while the leniency procedure can mitigate  fines received from the Commission, it does not preclude subsequent private claims for damages being brought against  cartel participants in national courts.
MacRoberts advises on all aspects of Competition Law. Disclaimer
The material contained in this article is of the nature of general comment only and does not give advice on any particular matter. Recipients should not act on the basis of the information in this e-update without taking appropriate professional advice upon their own particular circumstances.
© MacRoberts 2010
Mr David Flint
MacRoberts

Page 15 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
30 Simple Street
Edinburgh
EH3 8BL
UNITED KINGDOM
E-mail: marketing@macroberts.com
URL: www.macroberts.com
Click Here for related articles
(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2010 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 -  http://www.mondaq.com
CO       acedis : AU Optronics Corporation | handis : HannStar Display Corporation | sansel : Samsung
Electronics Co Ltd
IN         i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i34532 : Components for Electronic Goods | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
NS       ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c34 : Competition Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
RE       taiwan : Taiwan | uk : United Kingdom | asiaz : Asia | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe | apacz : Asia Pacific
IPD      Anti-trust/Competition
PUB     Mondaq Limited
AN       Document BBPUB00020101216e6cg000b6






































Page 16 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        Rise in EU antitrust settlements expected
BY         By Nikki Tait in Brussels
WC        341 words
PD         23 December 2010
SN         Financial Times (FT.Com)
SC         FTCOM
LA         English
CY         Copyright 2010 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.

LP
Competition lawyers are predicting that more companies caught up in price-fixing  investigations will settle their cases with European antitrust authorities after the European Commission raised more than
€3bn ($3.9bn) in  cartel fines in 2010.

Europe's top competition watchdog clawed in €3.05bn in  fines this year, the second-highest total penalty amount for any one year.

TD
Two big cases, settled late in 2010, contributed significantly to the final amount, with  fines of €800m being imposed on 11 airlines for fixing  air freight rates, and another €649m coming from five Asian electronics companies which settled cartel allegations concerning  LCD panels for mobile phones, computers and televisions.

The European Commission's settlement system is relatively new and it has taken several years for the first agreements to be finalised. But some lawyers say that, with a better understanding of how the process works, more companies accused of  cartel behaviour, may now follow this route.

"Settlements have accounted for slightly under one-third of the  European Commission's takings on cartel cases this year, so it's obvious it'll be pushing for more of these types of results in the coming year," said Martin Klusmann, co-head of the competition practice at Freshfields, the law firm.

"Settlements could increasingly be sought over the coming year, in particular if the Commission were to simplify its procedures for settlements, which is rumoured to be on the cards."

The Commission is known to have a number of potentially significant  cartel cases in the pipeline. According to Mr Klusmann, it carried out seven dawn raids on company premises this year, only slightly down from the nine which occurred in the previous 12 months.

He added that, in many cases, more resources appeared to be involved in these raids. "More inspectors are involved and the technologies used to take digital images of computers and other IT equipment are extremely advanced. Consequently, information gathered by the Commission is of a very high quality," he said.

CO        eucmm : European Commission

NS         c34 : Competition Issues | eucom : European Commission | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
IPD        Company News
IPC        CN
PUB      The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN         Document FTCOM00020101223e6cn001rz

Search Summary

Page 17 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Text                                 ("european commission" or "Eu commission") and fine* and (cartel or fixing) and lcd not celex* not interfax
Date                                08/11/2010 to 08/01/2011
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                112
Timestamp                      12 April 2019 9:24 PM






















































Page 18 of 18 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
