




Fines likely for gas groups........................................................................................................................................ 2

(EU) EU/ COMMISSION - COMMISSION WILL AUTHORISE TWO MERGERS, FINE A DUTCH CARTEL AND RESOLVE THE CASE OF ... ................................................................................................................................... 3
EU fines U.S., European companies for fixing Dutch gas prices ............................................................................. 4
COMPANIES &FINANCE EUROPE - Fines likely for gas groups. .......................................................................... 5
EU fines Dutch industrial gas makers for cartel . ..................................................................................................... 7
UPDATE 2-EU fines firms 25 mln euros for Dutch gas cartel . ................................................................................ 8
Highlights of Wednesday's Commission briefing...................................................................................................... 9
UK PRESS: Gas Companies Face Large Fines From EU ..................................................................................... 12
EU/ Gas Fines -2: Operated Illegal Cartel In Mid-90s ............................................................................................ 13 (EU) - Contents.Danish Presidency slams attack on Gaza. .................................................................................. 14 (EU) EU/COMPETITION - Mr Monti announced a number of decisions - fine imposed on Dutch industrial gas ......
17
Reuters EU highlights for 24 hours to 0700 GMT Thursday. ................................................................................ 19
Fines for Dutch industrial gases cartel . ................................................................................................................. 21
Need to know - The essential daily guide to the sectors. ....................................................................................... 22
BUSINESS BRIEF. ................................................................................................................................................ 26
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY - COMMISSION FINES DUTCH GASES CARTEL OVER EURO 25 MILLION. ............. 27
Industrial gas cartel fined . ..................................................................................................................................... 28
Brussels fines seven gases firms for price-fixing . ................................................................................................. 29
Seven gas producers fined by the EC. ................................................................................................................... 30 (BRIEF) Seven Dutch firms have three months to pay a total of 25.72 ... ............................................................. 31

























Page 1 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD           Fines likely for gas groups.
BY          By FRANCESCO GUERRERA IN BRUSSELS AND DAVID FIRN IN LONDON.
WC         288 words
PD          23 July 2002
SN          Financial Times (FT.Com)
SC          FTCOM
LA          English
CY          (c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
The UK group BOC, France's Air Liquide and the US company Air Products, three of the world's largest producers of industrial gases, face fines from European regulators for taking part in an agreement to fix prices in the Netherlands.

The European Commission is believed to have concluded that the three companies, and four of their rivals, operated an illegal cartel in the mid-1990s.

TD
The exact size of the  fines will not be known until this morning but competition experts said the seven companies could face penalties of some EUR10m-E50m each.
The commission declined to comment on Tuesday.

However, people familiar with the case said the  commission had evidence that the seven companies took part in a  cartel to fix prices and agree production quotas for liquid  gas in the Netherlands.

Although the agreement was limited to the Netherlands, the Brussels authorities got involved because the gas produced was exported to  industrial groups across the European Union.
Air Liquide confirmed that it was under investigation, but gave no further details. Air Products said it
had been asked to provide the  commission with information on the Dutch markets for  gas transported
in road tankers and cylinders.
BOC declined to comment.

The industrial gas market went through a difficult time in the 1990s when over-investment in fixed production capacity led to price falls in a number of markets.

Anti-trust authorities on both sides of the Atlantic have been concerned about competition in the sector since the late 1990s, when 70 per cent of the market became concentrated into the hands of six big companies after an 18 month consolidation spree.

CO         airpro : Air Products and Chemicals Inc | boc : BOC Group plc | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA
IN           i25 : Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas
NS          c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec
: European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE          benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | neth : Netherlands |
weurz : Western Europe
IPC         Monopolies &Antitrust
PUB       The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN          Document ftcom00020020724dy7n0000j




Page 2 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD   (EU) EU/COMMISSION - COMMISSION WILL AUTHORISE TWO MERGERS, FINE A DUTCH CARTEL AND RESOLVE THE CASE OF ...
WC  502 words
PD   24 July 2002
SN   Agence Europe
SC   AGEU
LA    English
CY   (c) 2002 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .

LP
(EU) EU/COMMISSION - COMMISSION WILL AUTHORISE TWO MERGERS,  FINE A DUTCH  CARTEL
AND RESOLVE THE CASE OF SERVICE COSTS ON TRADERS.

TD
Brussels, 23/07/2002 (Agence Europe) - On Wednesday the European  Commission is expected to adopt several decisions on competition that will be presented to the press by Commissioner Mario Monti.

The first focuses on the costs lined to cross-border service Visa Card payments. These costs are set out in the context of the Visa system with banking partners and borne by traders and in some cases passed on to customers. The way of fixing commission costs has led the European  Commission to identify  price         fixing and a block on competition. The Commission sent Visa a warning letter in October 2001 and the company said that it would substantially reduce the amount charged in  commission, while asking for an exemption to Article 81 of the treaty. Last May, Commissioner Monti indicated that he wanted to bring this case to a close before August. This should have been done last Wednesday, with a decision granting exemption to setting prices but at the same time outlining precise rules for calculating the amount of the commission in order that this weighs less heavily on consumers.

The Commission is also going to fine seven companies operating on the industrial and medical gas markets in the Netherlands. Following a detailed investigation, the Commission has concluded that these companies have formed a  cartel in the classic sense of the word, including an agreement on prices and the dividing up of the Dutch market.

EUROPE believes that the  Commission is about to give the green light to two mergers. The Italian Promatech SpA, subsidiary of Radici is expected to get the go-ahead for acquiring the textile branch of the Swiss company, Sulzer (turnover EUR 440 million in 2000). Although this operation is significant for the weaving sector it has not obtained a turnover that would cause it to fall under the exclusive responsibility of the Commission. It could have been examined by the Member States involved (Italy, Spain, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Portugal and Austria) but these countries preferred to send the case to the Commission, which opened a detailed investigation into the matter last April (EUROPE 17 April). At the end of this enquiry,  Commission services concluded that this monopoly would not have a negative impact on competition.

The Commission is also expected to give the green light to the laborious acquisition of the British maritime company, P&O Princess Cruises PLC by the world market leader, US company, Carnival Corp. The US company had to up its offer three times for the buy-out and conclude the deal. Commissioners Liikanen and Verheugen were worried about the possible consequences that this merger could have on the shipbuilding sector. The favourable decision is expected to be enacted on Wednesday, after having initially received a document constituting objections and preparation.

NS   c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ocat : International
Pol-Econ Organizations
RE   belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN   Document ageu000020020724dy7o0006f




Page 3 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD    EU fines U.S., European companies for fixing  Dutch gas prices
WC   189 words
PD    24 July 2002
ET    01:16 PM
SN    Associated Press Newswires
SC    APRS
LA    English
CY    Copyright 2002. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS, Belgium (Dow Jones/AP) - The European Union  Commission on Wednesday fined seven industrial gas companies, including U.S.-based Air Products & Chemicals Inc., a total of 25.7 euro (dlrs) for fixing gas prices in the Netherlands.
The decision highlights the "determination to crackdown on  price fixing  agreements," the  commission
said in a statement.

TD
The EU fined Air Products, of Allentown, Pennsylvania, 2.3 million euro; France's Air Liquide SA 3.64 million euro, and Britain's BOC PLC 1 million euro.

The EU found that three companies and four of their rivals operated a  cartel by fixing prices and agreeing quotas for  industrial and medicalgases in cylinder and liquid form for nearly a decade starting in 1989. Although the illegal activity took place in only the Netherlands, the actions affected prices throughout Europe, the EU said.

The four other companies involved are NV Hoek Loos,  fined 12.6 million euro; AGA AB 4.15 million euro; Messer Nederland BV 1.17 million euro; Westfalen Gassen Nederland BV 430,000 euro.
(dj-pfg)

RF    r
CO   lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA
IN     i25 : Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas
NS    e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ
Organizations
RE    belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | neth : Netherlands | weurz : Western Europe
IPD   f
IPC   sldw1732
AN    Document aprs000020020724dy7o00hwi













Page 4 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          COMPANIES &FINANCE EUROPE - Fines likely for gas groups. BY          By DAVID FIRN and FRANCESCO GUERRERA.
WC         325 words
PD          24 July 2002
SN          Financial Times
SC          FTFT
PG          26
LA          English
CY          (c) 2002 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
The UK group BOC, France's Air Liquide and the US company Air Products, three of the world's largest producers of industrial gases, face fines from European regulators for taking part in an agreement to fix prices in the Netherlands.

The European Commission is believed to have concluded that the three companies, and four of their rivals, operated an illegal cartel in the mid-1990s.

TD
The exact size of the  fines will not be known until this morning but competition experts said the seven companies could face penalties of some Euros 10m-50m each.
The commission declined to comment yesterday.

However, people familiar with the case said the  commission had evidence that the seven companies took part in a  cartel to fix prices and agree production quotas for liquid  gas in the Netherlands.

Although the agreement was limited to the Netherlands, the Brussels authorities got involved because the gas produced was exported to  industrial groups across the European Union.
Air Liquide confirmed that it was under investigation, but gave no further details. Air Products said it
had been asked to provide the  commission with information on the Dutch markets for  gas transported
in road tankers and cylinders.
BOC declined to comment.

The industrial gas market went through a difficult time in the 1990s when over-investment in fixed production capacity led to price falls in a number of markets.

Anti-trust authorities on both sides of the Atlantic have been concerned about competition in the sector since the late 1990s, when 70 per cent of the market became concentrated into the hands of six big companies after an 18 month consolidation spree.

* The commission is today expected to clear Carnival's takeover of the UK cruise group P&O Princess and the merger between the Italian textile machinery manufacturer Promatech and Sulzer Textil of Switzerland.
London Edition 1.

CO         airpro : Air Products and Chemicals Inc | boc : BOC Group plc | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA
IN           i25 : Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas
NS          c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

RE          benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | fra : France | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | neth : Netherlands | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe

Page 5 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
IPC         London Edition 1
PUB       The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN          Document ftft000020020724dy7o0009m



































































Page 6 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD           EU fines Dutch industrial gas makers for cartel. WC          127 words
PD           24 July 2002
ET            12:30 PM
SN           Reuters News
SC           LBA
LA            English
CY           (c) 2002 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, July 24 (Reuters) - The European  Commission said on Wednesday it had  fined seven producers of industrial and medical gases a total of 25.72 million euros for taking part in a secret cartel in the Netherlands.

It said in a statement that the  cartel operated between September 1993 and December 1997. The illicit arrrangement concerned the supply of several  gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and argon for which  cartel members colluded to keep prices high.

TD
The highest  fine was levied on NV Hoek Loos at 12.6 million euros. The other companies  fined varying amounts were AGA AB, Air Liquide BV, Air Products Nederland BV, Messer Nederland BV, BOC Group Plc and Westfalen Gassen Nederland BV.

CO           boc : BOC Group plc | lnde : Linde AG
IN             i25 : Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3255 : Handling
Equipment
NS           c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE           benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | neth : Netherlands |
weurz : Western Europe
PUB         Reuters Ltd.
AN           Document lba0000020020724dy7o00ku7
























Page 7 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          UPDATE 2-EU fines firms 25 mln euros for Dutch gas cartel. WC         333 words
PD          24 July 2002
ET           01:34 PM
SN          Reuters News
SC          LBA
LA           English
CY          (c) 2002 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, July 24 (Reuters) - The European Commission slapped fines totalling almost 26 million euros on seven companies for running a  cartel for industrial and medical gases in the Netherlands which kept prices artificially high.

It said in a statement that the cartel operated between September 1993 and December 1997 and concerned the supply of gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and argon.

TD
"The investigation unveiled a  price-fixing cartel in the Dutch market for  industrial and medical          gases, which, due to imports and exports of these products to and from member states, had an effect on intra-community trade," the  Commission said.

The fines levied totalled 25.72 million euros and the companies had three months to pay their share of it.
The highest  fine was levied on NV Hoek Loos, whose parent is Linde AG , at 12.6 million euros. Sweden's AGA AB has to pay 4.15 million euros, Air Liquide BV, a unit of French L'Air Liquide SA ,
has to pay 3.64 million euros and Air Products Nederland BV, a subsidiary of Pennsylvania-based Air
Products and Chemicals Inc. , was  fined 2.73 million euros.

Messer Nederland, a subsidiary of unlisted Frankfurt-based Messer Group, was  fined 1.17 million euros, BOC Group Plc 1.0 million euros and Westfalen Gassen Nederland BV, a subsidiary of unlisted German Westfalen Aktien Gesselschaft (WAG), 430,000 euros.

The Commission said it had evidence that between 1989 and 1991 and from 1993 to 1997, the leading suppliers of  industrial gases in the Netherlands held regular meetings to discuss and fix price increases and other trading conditions for cylinder  gases, and sometimes bulk, supplied to their customers.

"This is the third  cartel decision taken by the  Commission this year and further highlights its determination to crack down on price-fixing agreements which harm customers,  industrial consumers and, as is the case for medical gases, also taxpayers," it said.

CO          audat : Automatic Data Processing Inc. | boc : BOC Group plc | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA | lnde : Linde
AG
IN            i25 : Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3255 : Handling Equipment
| i8395404 : Human Resources/Executive Searching | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
NS          c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE          benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | neth : Netherlands |
uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
PUB        Reuters Ltd.
AN          Document lba0000020020724dy7o00lxg


Page 8 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          Highlights of Wednesday's Commission briefing. WC         706 words
PD          24 July 2002
ET          06:21 PM
SN          Reuters News
SC          LBA
LA          English
CY          (c) 2002 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, July 24 (Reuters) - Following are highlights of the midday briefing by the European
Commission on Wednesday:
- - - -

TD
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Spokesman Jonathan Faull made the following announcements;
On Friday after the  Commission's noon briefing there will be a technical briefing on "Implementing the
Cotenou Agreement - progress in programming the 9th European Development Fund". - - - -
HUMANITARIAN-AID-EU

Spokesman Michael Curtis said there would be an on-the-record briefing on progress made in recent months in African Caribbean and Pacific countries under the Contenou Agreement signed in 2000. The agreement sets out new rules and criteria for the allocation of aid.

Curtis said the  Commission had decided to allocate 32 million euros to sexual reproductive health to developing countries implemented by United Nation's Population Funds and the International Planned Parenthood Federation. He said that the EU decision was particularly relevant following a U.S. decision to cut funding to the UN Population Fund.
- - - - ENVIRONMENT-EU
Spokeswoman Pia Arhenkilde said the World Summit on sustainable development would be held in Johannesburg on August 26. There would be a press conference before  Commission President Romano Prodi leaves to attend the summit on the week of August 26.
- - - -
TRADE-ANTI-DUMPING-EU

Spokesman Anthony Gooch said he was bound by strict rules against commenting on investigations on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy cases. He advised journalists to check the  Commission's Official
Journal to see if it would launch an investigation.
- - - - KALININGRAD-EU
Spokeswoman Emma Udwin said the meeting between the  Commission, the EU's Danish Presidency and the Russian Federation was a useful informal contact.

The purpose of the meeting was to make clear what has been intended in the  Commission's study, she said.

Page 9 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The Commission is looking for an effective and flexible solution to the transit question for Kaliningrad within the "aquis" and in consultation with the candidate countries, she added.
- - - -
The Commission released the following documents:
- IP/02/1149: WTO highlights the EU's crucial role in the multilateral trading system

- IP/02/1148: Reproductive health in developing countries: The  Commission moves to fill the "decency gap" with 32 million euros package

- IP/02/1147: Commissioners Lamy and Patten agree with Mercosur counterparts ambitious program for EU-Mercosur trade negotiations
- IP/02/1146: Fischler visits Japan and Thailand to press for more political involvement in Doha Round
- IP/02/:
- IP/02/1145: Greek cotten production in 2001/02

- IP/02/1144: The  Commission takes a final decision on the State aid paid by France to its coal industry for 1998 to 2001

- IP/02/1143: Italy/Trento:  Commission approves part of planned aid to take the transport of goods off the roads

- IP/02/1142: Ecopoints:  Commission again decides not to apply the 108 percent clause due to insufficient evidence
- IP/02/1141:  Commission clears Carnival's takeover bid for P&O Princess
- IP/02/1140:  Commission clears takeover of Sulzer Textil by Promatech subject to divestments
- IP/02/1139:  Commission fines seven companies in Dutch industrialgases cartel
- IP/02/1138:  Commission exempts multilateral interchange fees for cross-border Visa card payments
- IP/02/1137: Euros 70 milion proposed for additional aid to Afghanistan, raising EU support to Euro
250 million in 2002

- IP/02/1136: Modernisation of the accounting system: the way to an integrated accrual accounting frameowrk system
- IP/02/1135: High level exchange of views

- IP/02/1134: Excise duties:  Commission proposes harmonisation of taxation on commercial diesel fuel

- IP/02/1133: World Summit on sustainable development;  Commission pushes for tangible results and globalisation for the benfit of all

- IP/02/1131:  Commission declares state aid to BAE Berliner Batteriefabrik and MODAC compatible with the EC Treaty

- IP/02/1130: The  Commission reports on achievements and internal management and control systems in 2001 and adopts an action plan to speed up reform implementation in specific areas

- IP/02/1129:  Commission appoints new head of fisheries, new deputy secretary general and deputies in trade and competition
- IP/02/1118:  Commission welcomes approval for an extra 65 million euros in humanitarian funds for
Southern Africa, Afghanistan and Palestinians

- MEMO/02/176:  Commission proposal on harmonisation of commericial diesel taxes - frequently asked questions
- MEX/24.7: Midday Express.
NS          eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ocat : International
Pol-Econ Organizations

Page 10 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
PUB       Reuters Ltd.
AN          Document lba0000020020724dy7o00vhm




































































Page 11 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD           UK PRESS: Gas Companies  Face Large Fines From EU WC          135 words
PD           24 July 2002
ET           10:19 AM
SN           Dow Jones International News
SC           DJI
LA           English
CY           (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

LP
LONDON -(Dow Jones)- The U.K.'s BOC Plc (U.BOC), France's Air Liquide S.A. (X.ALQ) and U.S. company Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD), all major producers of  industrial gases, face fines from European Union regulators for taking part in a  price-fixing agreement in the Netherlands, the Financial Times reports.

The E.U.  Commission is believed to have concluded that the three companies and four of their rivals operated this agreement in the mid-1990s, the paper says. The exact size of the  fine will be known Wednesday morning, but competition experts suggest penalties could be EUR10 million to EUR50 million each.

TD
Newspaper Web site:  http://www.ft.com
-London Bureau, Dow Jones Newswires; +44 (0)20 7842 9307

CO          airpro : Air Products and Chemicals Inc | boc : BOC Group plc | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA
IN            i25 : Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods

NS           ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE           cana : Canada | caqc : Quebec | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | fra : France | medz
: Mediterranean | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | use : Northeast
U.S. | uspa : Pennsylvania | weurz : Western Europe
PUB        Dow Jones & Company
AN           Document dji0000020020724dy7o000i3























Page 12 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD           EU/Gas Fines -2: Operated Illegal Cartel In Mid-90s
WC          290 words
PD           24 July 2002
ET           12:57 PM
SN           Dow Jones International News
SC           DJI
LA            English
CY           (Copyright (c) 2002, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

LP
BRUSSELS -(Dow Jones)- The European Union  Commission Wednesday fined seven
industrial-gas companies a total of EUR25.72 million for fixing  gas prices in The Netherlands.

The move highlights the "determination to crackdown on  price-fixing agreements", the E.U. Competition  Commission said in a statement.

TD
The E.U.  fined U.S. company Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) EUR2.3 million, France's Air
Liquide SA (F.AIR) EUR3.64 million, and the U.K.'s BOC Group PLC (U.BOC) EUR1 million.

The E.U. found that three companies and four of their rivals operated a  cartel by fixing prices and agreeing quotas during the mid-1990s. Although the illegal activity took place in only The Netherlands, the actions affected prices throughout Europe, the E.U. said.

The four other companies involved are NV Hoek Loos,  fined EUR12.6 million, AGA AB, which was fined EUR4.15 million, Messer Nederland BV with a EUR1.17 million  fine, and Westfalen Gassen Nederland BV was  fined EUR0.43 million.

Cases involving products such as  gas are part of a larger global crackdown on collusion among chemical powerhouses.

Lawyers say cartels flourish in the sector because products are hard to differentiate by quality, in turn offering a greater temptation for producers to collude on prices.

In Europe, Competition Commisioner Mario Monti has overseen the setting-up of a cartels "swat team", boosted its staff over the past two years and collected $1.8 billion in  fines in 2001.

E.U. authorities can  fine companies operating a  cartel as much as 10% of their total annual global sales.
-By James Kanter, Dow Jones Newswires; 322-285-0136; james.kanter@dowjones.com

CO           airpro : Air Products and Chemicals Inc | boc : BOC Group plc | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA
IN            i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i25 : Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas

NS           c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE           benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | fra : France | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | neth : Netherlands | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States
| use : Northeast U.S. | uspa : Pennsylvania | weurz : Western Europe
PUB         Dow Jones & Company
AN           Document dji0000020020724dy7o000pq




Page 13 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD    (EU) - Contents.Danish Presidency slams attack on Gaza. WC   568 words
PD    25 July 2002
SN    Agence Europe
SC    AGEU
LA     English
CY    (c) 2002 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .

LP
THE DAY IN POLITICS

TD
(EU) EU/MIDDLE EAST:
Danish Presidency slams attack on Gaza - Moller holds talks with Arafat and Peres
(EU) EU/CFDP:

Solana visits India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran and Brunei (for ASEAN Regional Forum) - Ministerial Troika with North and South Korea and Australia
(EU) EU/BALKANS:
Javier Solana on visit to Belgrade
(EU) EU/MOROCCO:

Colin Powell gives his interpretation of the agreement on island of Perejil - Ana Palacio thanks EU for its support
(EU) EU/SUDAN:
EU welcomes agreement between government and SPLMA/A (EU) EU/LIBERIA
(EU) EU/COMORES
(EU) EU/DRC/RWANDA:
EU Presidency welcomes result of negotiations
(EU) EP/IRAN:

Brok welcomes current developments and announces Iranian Foreign Minister has agreed in principle to speak before the EP
(EU) EP/CONVENTION:
Leinen is not for "Congress of the Peoples of Europe" (EU) EU/CONVENTION:
Antonio Vitorino insists on integrating the Charter of Fundamental Rights in Treaty to bring Europe closer to citizens
GENERAL NEWS
(EU) EU/COMMISSION/REFORM:


Page 14 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Commission Director Generals identify shortcomings in their departments - 18-point action plan
(EU) EU/LEBANON
(EU) EU/FINANCIAL MARKETS:
Romano Prodi and Frits Bolkestein send message of confidence in financial markets in wake of US
scandals
(EU) EU/COMPETITION:

Mr Monti announced a number of decisions:  fine imposed on Dutch industrialgas cartel, exemption granted to Visa, green light to P&O, Sulzer Textil/Promatech
(EU) EU/COMMISSION:

Five new appointments - Eckart Guth new Deputy Secretary General with responsibility for relations with other institutions - Jorgen Holmquist new Director General for DG Fish
(EU) EU/AFGHANISTAN:

Commission unveils EUR 70 million more aid
(EU) EU/COMMISSION:
Communication on updating the accounting system
(EU) EU/TAXATION:

Commission adopts proposals on harmonising commercial diesel tax - Frits Bolkestein heads off UK
criticism
(EU) EU/TAXATION:

Commission to adopt communication on Friday on approximation of registration and road taxes in EU
(EU) EU/TRANSPORT:

Commission decides not to reduce ecopoints for 2002
(EU) EU/TRANSPORT:
Partial authorisation of aid regime to freight in Italy
(EU) EU/TRANSPORT:
Coreper approves EU's response to United States in hushkit affair
(EU) EU/AGRICULTURE/WTO:

Commission will be authorised by Member States on Friday to negotiate new cereal import system
(EU) EU/AGRICULTURE:

Commission fixes minimum price for Greek cotton
(EU) EU/MERCOSUR:
"Ministerial" meeting defines work programme by end 2003 for negotiators of free trade agreement
(EU) EU/JUSTICE:
Denmark proposes two framework decisions on confiscating proceeds of crime
(EU) EU/INTERNAL AFFAIRS:
Council adopts framework decision for combating trafficking in human beings
(EU) EU/JUSTICE (EU) EU/ECSC:

Page 15 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Goke Frerichs welcomes continuation of ECSC's Consultative Committee within Economic and Social Committee - Speeches by Hellwig, Rabier and Gibellieri, the last President of ECSC Consultative Committee - Speech by Ana Palacio
(EU) EU/ENERGY:
Adoption of regulation on state aid for coal
(EU) EU/ANTI-DUMPING (EU) EU/ANTI-DUMPING
(EU) EU/INTERNAL MARKET:

Commission takes Greece to Court of Justice for its tax on pleasure craft
(EU) EU/ENVIRONMENT:
Ten Member States do not respect aspects of legislation on waste - the  Commission acts
(EU) EU/FOOD SAFETY:
European Animal Feed Federation organises conference on less on of the MPA hormone affair
(EU) EU/ENVIRONMENT:
Environmental assessment of Prodi  Commission shows NGOs are not all convinced
(EU) EU/ESC/TURKEY:
EU-Joint Consultative Committee
EUR: VALUE IN DIFFERENT CURRENCIES ON 24/07/2002.
NS    gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest

RE    belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN    Document ageu000020020725dy7p00004
































Page 16 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD   (EU) EU/COMPETITION - Mr Monti announced a number of decisions - fine imposed  on Dutch industrial gas ...
WC  1,116 words
PD   25 July 2002
SN   Agence Europe
SC   AGEU
LA    English
CY   (c) 2002 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .

LP
(EU) EU/COMPETITION - Mr Monti announced a number of decisions -  fine imposed on Dutch industrial gas cartel, exemption granted to Visa, green light to P&O, Sulzer Textil/Promatech.

TD
Brussels, 24/07/2002 (Agence Europe) - In a statement to the press, Mario Monti announced four important decisions taken by the  Commission in the field of competition:

Dutch industrial gas cartel: the European  Commission has today fined seven producers of industrial and medical gases a total of EUR 25.72 million for participating in a secret  cartel in the Netherlands between September 1993 and December 1997. The companies  fined are NV Hoek Loos: EUR 12.6
million, AGA AB: EUR 4.15 million, Air Liquide BV: EUR 3.64 million, Air Products Nederland BV: EUR 2.73 million,Messer Nederland BV: EUR 1.17 million, BOC Group Plc: EUR 1 million, Westfalen Gassen Nederland BV: EUR 0.43 million, which kept prices high and distorted other trade conditions on the Dutch market for the supply of several gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and acetylene supplied in cylinder and liquid. These gases are used mainly in chemical and  medical  applications. The  Commission has evidence showing that between 1989 and 1991 and subsequently from 1993 until 1997, the suppliers
in question held regular meetings to discuss and fix price increases and other trading conditions. These trading conditions concerned in particular the rent of cylinders and transportation costs charged to customers. The leading suppliers also agreed to introduce a delivery charge for supplies of bulk and a charge for safety and environment on supplies of cylinders. Although the  Commission collected evidence on both periods, it only took into consideration the period after September 1993 for the purpose of calculating the  fines, since prescription applies for the first infringement. Hoek Loos was the most severely punished because of it being the main  industrial gas supplier in the country, together with AGA AB, but given the fact that the latter actively collaborated during the investigations it got off with a reduced  fine. The companies have three-month deadline to pay off the  fines. Participants in cartels had to realise that the
vice would get tighter, commented Mr Monti in announcing the decision.

Exemption given to Visa: After a two month investigation, the European  Commission has exempted under the European Union competition rules certain multilateral interchange fees (MIF) for cross-border payments with Visa cards, after the card organisation made major changes to the system.. The European Commission has exempted under the European Union competition rules certain multilateral interchange fees (MIF) for cross-border payments with Visa cards, after the card organisation made major changes to the system. "MIF" is an interbank payment made for each transaction carried out with a payment card. In
the Visa system, it is paid to the cardholder's bank by the retailer's bank and constitutes a cost for the latter which is normally passed on to retailers as part of the fee they pay to their bank for each Visa card payment. The default level of the Visa MIF - which applies unless two banks agree otherwise is set by the Visa Board and laid down in the Visa International payment card rules, which have been notified to the Commission for clearance. In September 2000 the  Commission considered that the rules were not transparent, so Visa decided to revise them in order to benefit from an exemption. Thus, the new MIF will
be reduced in both absolute terms and in stages to a level for the different types of consumer cards. The exemption will enter into force as soon as the modifications have been implemented by Visa - which has undertaken to do very shortly after the adoption of the decision - and it will be valid until 31 December
2007, after which date the  Commission will be free to re-examine the system. The  Commission explains that this will only apply to cross-border payment transactions with Visa consumer cards (credit cards, deferred debit cards and debit cards) at retailer outlets within the European Economic Area, which represent about 10% of all Visa card transactions in the EEA. The decision does not apply to MIFs for
domestic Visa payments within Member States, nor to MIFs for corporate Visa cards (that is, cards used by

Page 17 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
employees for business expenditure). Commissioner Monti explained that this decision was satisfactory and that they had granted the exemption after a careful examination of the market.

P&O Princes/Carnival: after an intensive second phase investigation, the  Commission has finally given the green light to the acquisition of P&O Princess Cruises by its US competitor Carnival Corp, without any conditions. During an initial investigation, competition services had certain reservations about the strong position of the parties on the cruise ship markets in the United Kingdom and Germany (see Europe 13 April p 9). This is thanks to, "intensive collaboration at all levels", explained Mario Monti who pointed out that strong growth had been registered on the market, the absence of significant barriers to the entry of the company onto the market and the possibilities for competitors to transfer capacity, such as that of the UK or USA for example, which exercise sufficient competitive pressure on the new Carnival group. In December
2001, Carnival announced a bid to buy up P&O Princess, a UK-based cruise company, which was in negotiations at the time with Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd (RCCL). It was bidding £4.56 per share (total bid of £3.2 bn). The bid was notified to the  Commission for clearance in February 2002. The UK competition authorities had in the meantime authorised the competing bid from RCCL, and the Federal Trade Commission of the United States was in the process of examining both bids for P&O Princess.

Sulzer Textil/Promatech: Following a second round of investigation, the  Commission also authorised Italy's Promatech SpA to take over Sulzer Textil, the textile machinery division of Swiss company Sulzer Ltd. The initial investigation had revealed the danger of a dominant position being created in the West European textile machinery market (see Europe of 18 April, p.13) but Promatech reassured the Commission by pledging to sell its textile machinery production sites in Verona and Solothurn. The deal
was sent to the European competition authorities by seven different Member States' competition authorities in application of Article 22 (3) of the Merger Regulation. Monti said the bid was the best solution, pointing out that the Green Paper proposals outlined a better breakdown of cases between Member State and European competition authorities.
CO   boc : BOC Group plc | hkloos : Hoek Loos | lnde : Linde AG
IN    i25 : Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3255 : Handling Equipment

NS   c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE   belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN   Document ageu000020020725dy7p0000i

































Page 18 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        Reuters EU highlights for 24 hours to 0700 GMT Thursday. WC       455 words
PD        25 July 2002
ET         09:11 AM
SN        Reuters EU Highlights
SC        REUNH
LA         English
CY        (C) Reuters Limited 2002.

LP
BRUSSELS, July 25 (Reuters) - Following are the main Reuters stories relating to the European Union in the 24 hours to 0700 GMT on Thursday:
- - - -

TD
EU approves Carnival bid for P&O Princess

BRUSSELS - The European  Commission on Wednesday unconditionally approved plans by Carnival Corp. of the United States to buy Britain's P&O Princess Cruises , ending a four-month fight in Europe for the "love boat" deal.
- - - -
EU's Solana to visit Iran on South Asian tour

BRUSSELS - European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana will visit Iran next Monday on a South Asian tour that highlights the contrast between Brussels' engagement with Tehran and U.S. efforts to isolate it.
- - - -
EU says Visa must reduce transaction fees

BRUSSELS - The European  Commission exempted Visa International from antitrust rules on Wednesday, allowing its practice of charging fees to merchants who accept Visa cards after agreeing a reduction in rates.
- - - -
EU sticks to opposition to US-style food aid plans

BRUSSELS - The European Union said on Wednesday that it stuck by its position that the United States used food aid to dump surplus produce on the world's poorest countries and that it would continue to push for change.
- - - -
Angry Austria wants new Alpine trucking permits blocked

VIENNA - Austria, fearing a rise in truck traffic through its crowded Alpine passes, will ask the European Court to block a European  Commission decision on Wednesday to hand out more permits for transit trucking this year.
- - - -
INTERVIEW-EU leaders in informal touch over stocks-Prodi



Page 19 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
BRUSSELS - European Union leaders are in constant informal touch over stock declines, but a rerun of the 1929 stock market crash is not on the cards due to sound economic fundamentals, European Commission President Romano Prodi said on Wednesday. "Informally we are in continuous touch," Prodi told Reuters Television in an interview when asked if leaders from the 15 EU member states were in contact with each other about steep losses in stock markets.
- - - -
EU rejects Russian demands in Kaliningrad dispute

BRUSSELS - The European Union stuck to its guns on Wednesday in a dispute with Russia over visas for residents of the Baltic port of Kaliningrad despite French President Jacques Chirac's surprise backing for Moscow.
- - - -
Norway power taxes upset European watchdog

OSLO - A European Union watchdog threatened on Wednesday to probe Norwegian tax rules that provide cut-price electricity for big  industrial consumers like Norsk Hydro or metals maker Elkem .
- - - -
EU fines firms 25 mln euros for Dutch  gas cartel

BRUSSELS - The European Commission slapped fines totalling almost 26 million euros on seven companies for running a cartel for industrial and medical gases in the Netherlands which kept prices artificially high.
CO        crnivl : Carnival Corp | elkspg : Elkem ASA | nohyd : Norsk Hydro ASA | podf : The Peninsular And
Oriental Steam Navigation Co | popcru : Carnival PLC
IN          i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i74 : Marine Transport | imarpas : Marine Passenger Transport | imet : Metals/Mining | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
NS        ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest |
ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB      Reuters Ltd.
AN        Document reunh00020020725dy7p00001






























Page 20 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD    Fines for Dutch industrial gases cartel. WC  161 words
PD   25 July 2002
SN   Chemisch Weekblad
SC   CHMWBL
LA    English
CY   (c) 2002 Elsevier Engineering Information www.ei.org

LP
Seven Dutch industrial gases producers have been fined a total of EUR 25.7 M by the European Commission for operating a gases cartel. AGA, Air Liquide, Air Products, BOC Group, Hoek Loos, Messer Nederland, and Westfalen Gassen Nederland agreed prices for oxygen, nitrogen, carbon monoxide, and argon in the period 1993-1997. The pricing arrangements particularly related to transportation costs and the hiring of  gas cylinders, but also to environmental and safety costs. Hoek Loos incurred the biggest  fine of EUR 12.6 M. This sum was reduced by 10% because of the company's cooperation with the investigation and Messer Nederland also had its  fine reduced by 10% for the same reason. AGA was  fined EUR 4.2 M, Air Liquide 3.6 M, BOC group EUR 1 M, and Westfalen Gassen EUR
0.43 M; the  fines on AGA and Air Products were reduced by 25% because of the provision of evidence.

CO   hkloos : Hoek Loos | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA | lnde : Linde AG
IN     i25 : Chemicals | i2511 : Basic Inorganic Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial
Goods | i3255 : Handling Equipment
NS   c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE   benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | neth : Netherlands | weurz
: Western Europe
IPC  AGA
AN   Document chmwbl0020020731dy7p00003
































Page 21 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          Need to know - The essential  daily guide to the sectors. BY          By Edited by Tom Bawden and Ingrid Mansell.
WC         2,049 words
PD          25 July 2002
SN          The Times
SC          T
PG          22
LA           English
CY          © 2002 Times Newspapers Ltd. All rights reserved

LP
Economics & Markets

Britain's blue chip shares slumped to a new six-year low as a fresh round of bloodletting hit markets. The FTSE 100 index closed down another 80.1 points, or 2.1 per cent, at 3,777.1, having earlier tumbled through 3,700 for the first time since July 1996.

TD
On Wall Street, shares rebounded in frenetic trading yesterday afternoon, pushing the Dow Jones
industrial average up more than 3 per cent. The Dow closed 488.95 points up at 8,191.29, reversing a
2 per cent plunge in early dealing.

Downing Street led a drive by politicians and central bankers on both sides of the Atlantic to soothe the shredded nerves of investors. Tony Blair's spokesman said the Prime Minister believed the UK economy was well placed to ride out the squalls buffeting share prices. President Bush's spokesman also emphasised fundamental strengths in the US economy.

The Bank of England's chief economist, Charlie Bean, delivered a clear hint that its Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) would leave interest rates on hold for months and could even order another cut. "Given what's happened to financial wealth because of the stock market, it's even more important that we keep the consumer going," he said. He also predicted that the UK stock market might start to rebound soon.

Britain's manufacturers remain confident that the recovery in industry will continue, but now expect the revival to be much weaker, according to the latest CBI survey. Monthly CBI figures showed a setback in both domestic and export orders for manufacturing.
Aerospace & Defence

BAE Systems confirmed that it had joined the partnership between Boeing, the US aerospace company, and its Franco-German rival EADS to work on ballistic missile defence.

GKN's aerospace services division became the first UK-based company to join Boeing in the development of its futuristic Sonic Cruiser jet. The new aircraft has a dramatic configuration and is designed to fly up to Mach 0.98, just under the speed of sound.

Lockheed Martin, the US military contractor, has won a £1 billion ( £639 million) bid to supply Aegis radar systems and missiles for South Korean destroyers.
Automobiles & Engineering

Cookson, the engineering company, will today continue efforts to shore up support for its rights issue amid fears it may have to be abandoned because of turmoil in the stock markets.

Shares in ABB tumbled 19.4 per cent after the Swiss-Swedish engineering group posted a worse than expected 62.1 per cent decline in interim net profit to $101 million ( £64.5 million) and a rise in net debt.



Page 22 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Shares in the debt-laden Invensys fell more than 7 per cent to 62.25p on a weak trading statement, as the British engineering group's claims that it was on course to raise £1.5 billion from asset sales by the end of March failed to cheer investors.

Fiat's share price fell to a new ten-year low of Euro 10.2 after its stock was suspended for about 35 minutes for having fallen more than the maximum 10 per cent allowed by the Milan stock exchange.
Banking & Finance

William Harrison, chairman and chief executive of JP Morgan Chase, defended his company's dealings with Enron at a hastily organised conference call, after the bank was called to testify against charges that it helped Enron to deceive and defraud investors. Meanwhile, Sandy Weill, chief executive of Citigroup who was also called upon to testify, sought to rally his troops at an internal meeting.

Abbey National reported a 34 per cent drop in interim pre-tax profits after a £208 million rise in provisions against lending to companies such as Enron and Tyco.

Prudential reassured investors over its solvency as it reported a 54 per cent drop in first-half pre-tax profits and a 15 per cent fall in operating profits, which are smoothed to take account of volatile investment returns.

A total of 13 European unidentified insurers had their offices raided by the German  Cartel Office which is probing accusations of  price fixing.
St James's Place Capital, the HBOS insurer for the wealthy, reported a 75 per cent fall in interim
pre-tax profits as profits from the life and pensions business fell 25 per cent to £29.5 million and profits
from its unit trusts business dropped 34 per cent to £10 million.
Chemicals & Basic Industries

More than 800 workers are to be made redundant by the end of the month because ASW, Britain's second largest steel company, has failed to find a buyer after going in to receivership.

The European  Commission slapped fines worth Euro 25.7 million ( £16.3 million) on seven companies, including Britain's BOC Group, for running a  cartel for industrial and chemical gases in The Netherlands that kept prices artificially high between 1993 and 1997.
Construction & Property

The Government called for a public inquiry into plans by Sellar Property Group to develop a 1,016ft tall skyscraper at London Bridge. The Renzo Piano-designed scheme, dubbed the "Shard of Glass", is backed by the Greater London Authority, Mayor Ken Livingstone and Southwark Council.

Unite, the student accommodation and key worker housing property specialist, launched a £57.5 million share placing, despite tumbling markets. The money will be used to expand its portfolio but will not impact on net asset value this year.

British Land and hostile shareholder Laxey Partners continued their war of words, with BL claiming Laxey's stake had dropped to 0.93 per cent following its return of the borrowed stock that had taken its stake up to 9 per cent ahead of BL's annual meeting last week. Laxey, however, claimed it retained a 3 per cent stake and denied selling any of its shares.
Food, Drink & Tobacco
John Banham, currently non-executive chairman at Whitbread, will join the board of Geest, the UK
fresh foods group, in September, just prior to the retirement of executive chairman Ian Menzies-Gow.
Health

GlaxoSmithKline announced plans for a further £4 billion share buyback after reporting a 23 per cent rise in interim pre-tax profits boosted by sales of its Advair asthma drug, also known as Seretide, which more than doubled to £416 million.

The European Union has approved Novartis's Zometa drug to be used for patients with malignancies such as prostate, breast, lung and renal cancers, where the disease spreads to the bone.
Leisure



Page 23 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Royal Caribbean may appeal against the European  Commission's decision to allow Carnival Corporation, the cruise operator, to proceed with its £3.3 billion bid for P&O Princess. Meanwhile, P&O has posted second-quarter earnings per share of 13.6c.
Sir David Frost, the TV personality and media entrepreneur, took advantage of a profit warning from
Sports Entertainment & Media, the AIM-listed sports management business where he is a
non-executive director, to take a debut stake through his pension fund of 75,000 shares at 37p.

McDonald's posted its first quarterly earnings increase in more than a year, as the weak US dollar boosted foreign sales and helped to offset lacklustre domestic results.
Media & Marketing
AOL Time Warner's accounts are being investigated by the Securities and Exchange  Commission,
the world's biggest media and entertainment company admitted yesterday. AOL Time Warner said that
it was co-operating with the inquiry.
Shares in Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, the company which looks after the business interests of
Martha Stewart, America's answer to Delia Smith, plunged another 30 per cent.
Prisa, the Spanish media group, reported a 56 per cent rise in interim profits to Euro 66.09 million (
£41.8 million) as advertising revenue rose 1.7 per cent to Euro 231.2 million.
Clear Channel, the largest owner of radio stations in the US, reported a $238 million ( £152.5 million)
second-quarter net profit, up from a $237 million loss a year earlier.
Natural Resources

Edinburgh Oil &  Gas has won a 10 per cent stake in a new offshore licence, located in the Outer Moray Firth east of the Buzzard oilfield, under the UK 20th round of offshore licensing awards by the Department of Trade and Industry. EOG's partners will be EnCana, with a 50 per cent stake, and Intrepid Energy North Sea, with 40 per cent.

Halliburton, the Dallas-based oilfield services company, posted a second quarter loss of almost half a billion dollars after taking a one-time after-tax charge of $391 million ( £250 million) to cover future asbestos claims.
Professional & Support Services

The Government called for companies' audit committees to have the lead role in choosing auditors and approving any additional non-audit work in the first report of its inter-departmental review of accounting, but stopped short of referring the big accountancy firms immediately to the Competition  Commission.

Lorien is examining new geographic markets and considering launching new services after the recruitment and consultancy group reported a drop into the red in the first half of the year.
Retail & Consumer Goods
Shares of GUS fell 7 per cent after the company admitted that first-quarter underlying sales growth at
Argos, its general retailing arm, plunged to 5 per cent from 12 per cent in the previous three months.

J Sainsbury disappointed investors as the UK's second biggest grocer said that underlying sales growth had fallen to a worse than expected 2.7 per cent for the three months to June 22. Excluding petrol, which has suffered from deflation, sales rose by 3.1 per cent.

Woolworths, the household goods retailer, is attempting to reclaim its place at the heart of the high street with a new £20m advertising campaign featuring Paul Kaye from the BBC programme Two Thousand Acres of Sky.

Shares in Mulberry fell nearly 6 per cent after the leather goods group reported a drop into the red last year.

Hamleys reported a 10 per cent rise in like-for-like sales in the 17 weeks to July, after a strong performance from its flagship branch in London's Regent Street.
Telecoms & Technology
Josef Ackermann, Deutsche Bank's chief executive, faced criminal indictment over his role in agreeing
Euro 74 million ( £47 million) of severance payments to Mannesmann bosses just as the company was

Page 24 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
being taken over by Vodafone more than two years ago. Vodafone chief Chris Gent was also under investigation but is unlikely to be charged.

Five former executives of Adelphia Communications, the cable operator, have been charged with conspiracy to commit securities, wire and bank fraud. The defendants include John Rigas, the former chief executive, and his sons Timothy, and Michael.

COLT Telecom shrugged off the surprise resignation of chief executive Peter Manning, who had spent just 18 months in the role, with a 127 per cent rise in underlying profits to £14.7 million.

The skeleton staff of KPNQwest, the bankrupt telecoms group, pulled the plug on its data network after trustees failed to sell its remaining assets. The closure ends what was once Europe's largest data network that spanned 18 countries from Finland to Portugal and carried up to half of the internet traffic in the region.

The bankrupt Global Crossing has extended the deadline for its assets auction by a week to July 31 to review the bids.
Transport & Distribution

Connex South Eastern, the train operator, awarded Canada's Bombardier a C$561 million ( £227.5 million) contract to supply 180 Suburban Electrostar carriages.

Air France apologised to Ilan Biran, chief executive of Bezeq Israel Telecom, after he complained that one of the airline's pilots had referred to Tel Aviv as "Israel-Palestine" in a cabin announcement and imposed a company boycott that was also taken up by other Israeli firms.
Utilities

The new market in electricity trading, known as Neta, has helped to deliver a 40 per cent reduction in wholesale power prices over the past four years and led to lower domestic bills, according to Ofgem, the energy regulator.
Contact us sectors@thetimes.co.uk
(c) Times Newspapers Ltd, 2002.
NS          c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
RE          eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
IPC         Business
PUB        News International Associated Services Limited
AN          Document t000000020020725dy7p000g7

























Page 25 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        BUSINESS BRIEF. WC       354 words
PD        25 July 2002
SN        European Voice
SC        EVOICE
LA         English
CY        (c) 2002 The Economist Newspaper Ltd. All rights reserved.

LP
US CRUISE-LINER giant Carnival Corp has won the European  Commission's go-ahead for its plan to buy Britain's P&O Princess Cruises. Competition Commissioner Mario Monti said his initial concerns over the deal were "unjustified".

TD
MONTI has told credit card giant Visa International it can continue to charge merchants a so-called interchange fee - albeit at a lower rate. The move follows a long investigation into the fees following a complaint by shopkeepers' lobby Eurocommerce.

THE competition chief also announced fines totalling almost 26 million euro on seven companies for running a cartel for industrial and medical gases in the Netherlands.

A TOP-LEVEL European aerospace research body has given its backing to an EU plan to boost innovation by forging a single market for R&D in the bloc. The 30-member Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe said the industry needed to adopt a new approach to research to meet the challenges of the next 20 years.

SINGLE Market Commissioner Frits Bolkestein has written to the US Senate complaining about a draft American law that would give its regulators power over European firms. The law - designed to tighten controls post-Enron and WorldCom - would allow US watchdogs to supervise audits of EU firms that are also listed on American stock markets.

BOLKESTEIN also announced controversial proposals to harmonise current wide variations in excise duty on diesel used by European truckers. He wants a 'central rate' of 350 euro per 1,000 litres from next year that will be allowed to rise to 410 euro in 2010. He rejected claims that governments such as the UK charging high duties would lose tax revenue under the plan, pointing out many truckers fill-up in cheaper countries to avoid high prices at home.

FINANCE industry groups have told Bolkestein they are being kept in the dark over EU moves to bolster financial supervision and regulation. Bosses from a group of ten leading trade associations - including the Federation of European Securities Exchanges and the European Savings Banks Group - said they have "serious concerns" about consultation on the issue.

NS        ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content
Types | nsum : News Digest | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN        Document evoice0020020727dy7p0000p











Page 26 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD   CHEMICAL INDUSTRY - COMMISSION FINES DUTCH GASES CARTEL OVER EURO 25 MILLION. WC   356 words
PD    27 July 2002
SN    European Report
SC    EURREP
LA    English
CY    (c) 2002 European Report.

LP
The European Commission announced on July 24 that it has decided to  fine seven producers of industrial and medical gases a total of Euro 25.72 million for participating in a secret  cartel in the Netherlands between September 1993 and December 1997. The companies concerned have three months to pay their  fines. The illegal arrangement concerned the supply of several  gases such as oxygen,
nitrogen, carbon dioxide and argon, argon mixtures and acetylene supplied in cylinder and liquid (bulk)
form, for which the  cartel members colluded to keep prices high.

TD
The companies concerned are Hoek Loos (fined Euro 12.6 millions), AGA (fined Euro 4.15 million), Air Liquide (fined Euro 3.64 million), Air Products Nederland (fined Euro 2.73 million), Messer Nederland (fined Euro 1.17 million), BOC Group (fined Euro 1 million), and Westfalen Gassen Nederland (fined Euro
430,000).Although the  Commission collected evidence on the existence of a  cartel between 1989 to
1991, it only took into consideration the period after September 1993 for the purpose of calculating the
fines, since the limitation of statutes applies for the first infringement, which ended more than five years
before the investigation began. When calculating  fines in antitrust violations, the  Commission takes into
account the gravity of the infringement, its duration and any aggravating or mitigating circumstances as
well as any possible co-operation on the part of the companies in the investigation. It also looks at a
company's share of the market concerned and at its overall size. The upper limit of any  fine is established
at 10% of a company's total annual turnover. The starting amounts of the  fines imposed on Hoek Loos and
AGA (i.e. before any reductions under the Commission's leniency rules) took into account the fact that the
two were the leading suppliers of industrialgases in the Netherlands during the period concerned. Air
Products Nederland and Air Liquide BV were considered to be large suppliers whereas Messer Nederland
and BOC were medium-sized suppliers. Westfalen was considered to be a small supplier.
(HB).

IN     i25 : Chemicals

NS    c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE    belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPC   CHEMICAL INDUSTRY
AN    Document eurrep0020020726dy7r000bb














Page 27 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD    Industrial gas cartel fined. WC   85 words
PD    29 July 2002
SN    Chemical & Engineering News
SC    CENEAR
PG   12
LA    English
CY    (c) 2002 Elsevier Engineering Information www.ei.org

LP
The European  Commission has fined seven industrial and medical gas suppliers $25.7 M for participating in a scheme to fix prices in the Netherlands between 1993 and 1997. The largest  fines were imposed on Hoek Loos ($12.6 M) and AGA ($4.2 M). Air Liquide was  fined $3.6 M, Air Products $2.7 M, Messer Griesheim $1.2 M, and BOC Group $1 M, Air Products and AGA were given a 25% reduction because they gave additional information.

CO   hkloos : Hoek Loos | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA | lnde : Linde AG | messgr : Messer Group GmbH
IN     i25 : Chemicals | i2511 : Basic Inorganic Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial
Goods | i3255 : Handling Equipment
NS    c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
IPC   Hoek Loos
AN   Document cenear0020020806dy7t00004





































Page 28 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD   Brussels fines seven gases firms for price-fixing. WC   89 words
PD    31 July 2002
SN    Chemical Week International
SC    CHWKA
PG   8
LA    English
CY    (c) 2002 Elsevier Engineering Information www.ei.org

LP
Seven companies have been fined a total of EUR 25.72 M by the European  Commission for conspiring to fix the prices of  medical  and industrialgases in the Netherlands between 1993 and 1997. The companies are: Westfalen Gassen (EUR 430,000); Messer (EUR 1 M); BOC (EUR 1.17 M); Air Products and Chemicals (EUR 2.73 M); Air Liquide (EUR 3.64 M); Aga (EUR 4.15 M); and Hoek Loos, a subsidiary of Linde (EUR 12.6 M).

CO   airpro : Air Products and Chemicals Inc | hkloos : Hoek Loos | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA | lnde : Linde AG
IN     i25 : Chemicals | i2511 : Basic Inorganic Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial
Goods | i3255 : Handling Equipment
NS    c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE    benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | neth : Netherlands | weurz
: Western Europe
IPC   Westfalen Gassen
AN    Document chwka00020020812dy7v0000b



































Page 29 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD   Seven gas producers fined by the EC. WC  140 words
PD   5 August 2002
SN   Chemical Marketing Reporter
SC   CMKRA
LA    English
CY   (c) 2002 Elsevier Engineering Information www.ei.org

LP
Seven industrial gas producers have been fined EUR 26 M by the European commission (EC), for taking part in a cartel in the Netherlands during the 1990s. The  cartel supplied industrial gases and colluded to keep prices high. The EC found that the arrangement affected trade in gases within the European Union due to the level of import and export of  gases to and from the Netherlands. Hoek Loos and AGA, now both part of Linde Group, received fines of EUR 12.6 M and EUR 4.15 M, respectively. Air
Liquide BV and Air Products Nederlands, were fined EUR 3.6 M and EUR 2.7 M, respectively. BOC Group received a fine of EUR 1.2 M and Messer Nederland EUR 1 M. Westfalen Gassen Nederland was  fined EUR 430,000.

CO   hkloos : Hoek Loos | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA | lnde : Linde AG
IN     i25 : Chemicals | i2511 : Basic Inorganic Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas | i32 : Machinery/Industrial
Goods | i3255 : Handling Equipment
NS   c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE   benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | neth : Netherlands | weurz
: Western Europe
IPC  Hoek Loos
AN   Document cmkra00020020815dy850001g

































Page 30 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD    (BRIEF) Seven Dutch firms have three months  to pay a total of 25.72 ... WC    180 words
PD     12 August 2002
SN     European Drug Report
SC     EDDR
VOL  Vol. 12, No. 16
LA     English
CY     Copyright (c) 2002 Washington Business Information, Inc.

LP
(BRIEF) Seven Dutch firms have three months to pay a total of 25.72 million euros in  fines for taking part in a secret medical gas cartel in the Netherlands between September 1993 and December 1997. The Dutch scheme involved the cartel members colluding to keep the prices of several  medical  and other industrial gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and argon, high by controlling supplies. The companies involved are: AGA AB, Air Liquide BV, Air Products Nederland BV, BOC Group Plc, NV Hoek Loos, Messer Nederland BV and Westfalen Gassen Nederland BV. While the  fines only cover activities between 1993 and 1997, the  commission has evidence that the cartel began in 1989. The European Commission fined the seven firms as part of a crack-down on price-fixing arrangements in the E.U., which Brussels says "harm customers, industrial consumers and, as is the case for  medical gases, also taxpayers." The  commission imposed massive fines on a vitamin cartel last November (EDR, Dec. 3).

CO    boc : BOC Group plc | lairlq : L'Air Liquide SA | lnde : Linde AG

IN      i25 : Chemicals | i2567 : Industrial Gas | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
NS     ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
RE     benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America |
neth : Netherlands | usa : United States | weurz : Western Europe
AN     Document eddr000020021107dy8c0000h

Search Summary

Text                                 commission and fine* and (cartel or "price-fixing" or "market sharing") and (industrial or medical) and (gases or gas) not "Alan Greenspan, Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, will command attention" not "CMS Energy, the US utility holding company, plans to restructure its energy marketing unit,"
Date                                24/06/2002 to 24/08/2002
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                20
Timestamp                      7 April 2019 4:01 PM









Page 31 of 31 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
