




Business Law: A view of the Court of First Instance ................................................................................................ 2
COMMISSION HOPES TO END ROW OVER CAR IMPORTS BETWEEN EC STATES. ...................................... 5
Europe braces for tailpipe standards ....................................................................................................................... 7
EC SET TO LOOSEN CONTROLS OVER CHEAP CAR IMPORTS . ................................................................... 10
Industrial policy debated by EC members ............................................................................................................. 12
EC clarifies rule of the road for cross-border car sales ......................................................................................... 15
COMMISSION TO CLARIFY POSITION OF INTERMEDIARIES IN CAR SALES. .............................................. 16
EC Says Peugeot Ban On Sales To French Dealership Illegal .............................................................................. 17
EC MAKES IT EASY TO BUY CHEAP CARS ABROAD. ..................................................................................... 19
EC ALTERS CAR RULES TO ALLOW PARALLEL IMPORTS ............................................................................. 21
COMMISSION CLARIFIES RULES ON BUYING CARS ABROAD. ..................................................................... 24
EC hints at car sales policy change ....................................................................................................................... 25
COMMISSION RULES ON PEUGEOT / ECOSYSTEM CASE. ............................................................................ 27
EC Commission Refuses to Ban Car Imports , Sales by Non-Dealers .................................................................. 28
EC ruling paves way for cheap car imports from Continent. .................................................................................. 30
Auto Industry: EC Commission Acts to Open Borders for Auto Competition ......................................................... 32
Notice served on networks: A look at an EC car industry ruling............................................................................. 34
EXPORTS KUWAITIS WANT 4WD FOR FAST GETAWAY.................................................................................. 36
Bleak news from the steel front line: The downturn is posing problems for producers and politicians .................. 38





























Page 1 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Business Law: A view of the Court of First Instance
BY        By AMI BARAV
WC      1,438 words
PD       7 November 1991
SN       Financial Times
SC       FTFT
PG       London Page 12
LA        English
CY       (c) 1991 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
On September 1 1989 the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) came into being. It was set up by the Council of the Ministers endorsing a request from the European Court of Justice (ECJ) in Luxembourg. At that time there were about 600 cases pending before the ECJ, which was managing
to deal with only about 200 a year, taking between 18 and 24 months to give judgment.

The CFI was set up to alleviate this burden and allow the ECJ to give judgments more quickly. To do this it was given jurisdiction to hear all cases brought by Community civil servants (staff cases) which represented about 20 per cent of the ECJ case-load; and competition cases.

TD
The reason these two categories were entrusted to the CFI was because they often raised complex factual issues which required long and thorough verification. In both competition and civil servant cases, the CFI determines conclusively all questions of fact. An appeal to the ECJ is only allowed on a point of law.

Under the presidency of Judge Cruz Vilaca of Portugal, the 12-member court carried on business in its first months according to the rules of procedure of the ECJ. Last April, however, the Council of Ministers approved the CFI's own rules of procedure which have been applied since.

The CFI rarely sits in full plenary session. It usually sits in chambers of three judges in staff cases and of five judges in competition cases. This, however, is not an inflexible rule.

Unlike the ECJ, there are no Advocates-General in the CFI to give reasoned opinions to assist the court in giving judgment. In cases where the court sits in plenary session a member of the CFI is chosen by the president to perform the function of an Advocate-General.

In September 1989, 78 civil servant cases and 73 competition law cases were transferred from the ECJ to the CFI. By the end of October 1991, the CFI had given 87 judgments and the president had made 14 interlocutory orders.

Of the 87 judgments, 15 were in competition law and 72 in civil servant cases. Of the 14 orders, 10 were in connection with civil servants' litigation and four in competition cases.

To date, 27 decisions of the CFI have been appealed to the ECJ: 20 in civil servants' cases, six in competition matters and one relating to the European Coal and Steel Treaty. Of these, one civil servant case was allowed and three dismissed and two competition cases were withdrawn. The other appeals are still pending.

There are now 169 pending cases before the CFI: 92 staff cases, 74 competition cases and three coal and steel cases. This is about the same number it inherited from the ECJ in 1989.
The ECJ still has approximately 600 cases pending, the same number it had two years ago. The ECJ
still takes on average between 18 months and two years to give judgment. It would seem, therefore, that
the CFI has failed in its main objective.

These figures suggest that a more fundamental reform of the judicial structure of the Community than the one introduced in 1989 is needed.
Page 2 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
First, the jurisdiction of the CFI should be widened to include anti-dumping cases. This was first requested by the ECJ in 1988 and the issue is now expected to be reviewed by the Council of Ministers.

It would also appear there is now the will to expand the jurisdiction of the CFI to introduce an almost generalised two-tier system in which the the CFI would determine conclusively all questions of fact with appeal to the ECJ on a point of law.

The CFI submitted its views on these issues to the Intergovernmental Conference on European Union in Rome last December. It asked that the Council should implement fully the provision of the Single European Act according to which 'certain classes of action or proceeding brought by natural or legal persons' may be within the jurisdiction of the CFI.

The CFI wants a gradual transfer of jurisdiction to it from the ECJ, but it sees power vis-a-vis anti-dumping and state subsidies as a priority.
Both the Luxembourg and the Dutch draft Treaty on European Union provide for an amendment of the
EC Treaty and for a possible extension of the categories of case in which the CFI may have jurisdiction.

They authorise the Council of Ministers to decide that all cases, not only those brought by natural or legal persons, be heard by the CFI, especially actions brought by member states and Community institutions excluding, however, references from national courts.

The present jurisdiction of the CFI is likely to be extended even before the entry into force of the Treaty on European Union due to be adopted in Maastricht in December. It is open to the Council to allow for all actions brought by natural or legal persons, not only those in the area of competition law and civil
servant litigation, to be heard by the CFI.

The CFI has already proved to be efficient and competent. It gave an important decision on competition last July in a case between the BBC and the European Commission.

It concerned the publication of Radio Times by BBC Enterprises Ltd (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the BBC). Pre-tax profits from Radio Times in the year ending March 31 1988 were Pounds 4.2m. The total pre-tax profit of BBC Enterprises Ltd for the same period was Pounds 6.4m.

The European Commission took the view that the BBC was guilty of abuse of a dominant position in respect of granting authorisation to third parties to publish TV listing of BBC1 and BBC2 programmes.

Under free licence, daily newspapers were authorised to publish daily listing and the weeklies were allowed to publish highlights of the week's television programmes, yet no comprehensive weekly TV guides of BBC1 and BBC2 programmes other than Radio Times were allowed.

The CFI dismissed the application by the BBC and upheld the Commission decision that, by preventing others from publishing weekly TV programmes and thus securing its monopoly, the BBC was guilty of abuse of its dominant position.

Another significant case involved the multinational Tetra Pak, who acquired Liquipak International Inc, a US company, together with its exclusive licence for a new UHT milk-packaging process developed by the British Technology Group (BTG).

The Commission argued that Tetra Pak had thus abused its dominant position in the market for aseptic milk-packaging machines of which it already has a 90 per cent share.

Despite the fact that the exclusive licence in question qualified for block exemption of patent licences, the CFI agreed with the Commission, particularly since Tetra Pak's behaviour actually precluded all competition in the market. No fines were imposed.

In a case involving the French car manufacturer  Peugeot, the CFI upheld the Commission decision that Peugeot was in breach of EC competition rules by instructing its approved dealers in France, Belgium and Luxembourg not to supply  Peugeot cars to EcoSystem,  another French company which acted as intermediary in purchasing cars for French final consumers. It is worth noting that the British government intervened in this case on the Commission's side.

Last October the CFI gave judgment in three of the polypropylene cases. It fully upheld the Commission's decision that the French firms Rhone-Poulenc and Atochem acted in violation of competition law as regards price-fixing and market-sharing and confirmed the fines imposed on them of Ecu 500,000 and Ecu 1,750,000 respectively.

In the case of the Belgian firm Petrofina, the CFI partially upheld the Commission's decision and reduced the fine from Ecu 600,000 to Ecu 300,000.
Page 3 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
From among the cases currently pending before the CFI some 40 concern alleged anti-competitive behaviour in thermoplastic products involving all the leading world and European producers, such as ICI, Shell and Hoechst.
Other cases deal with the net book agreement in the UK and the fifth television channel, La Cinq, in
France.

The number of cases actually pending before both European Courts and the prospects of cases arising under the future Treaty on the European  Economic Area call for strengthening of the Community judicial structure.
In this respect, the establishment, two years ago, of the CFI was a welcome but clearly insufficient step. The author is consultant on European Community law to City solicitors Theodore Goddard and Professor
of Law at the College of Europe, Bruges.
NS       eec : European Union | eucj : European Court of Justice | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE       lux : Luxembourg | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe |
weurz : Western Europe
PUB     The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN       Document FTFT000020070429dnb701lcn
















































Page 4 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD         COMMISSION HOPES TO END ROW OVER CAR IMPORTS BETWEEN EC STATES. BY          By Brian Love
WC         650 words
PD          21 November 1991
SN          Reuters News
SC          LBA
LA          English
CY          (c) 1991 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, Nov 21, Reuter - The  European Commission will soon issue a key interpretation of EC car distribution regulations in an effort to end a row over car manufacturers' rights to control sales in the Community through exclusive dealership networks.
The move follows attempts by  Peugeot SA to stop independent French agent  Ecosystem importing
better-priced  Peugeot cars from Benelux countries for pre-arranged sale to French consumers.

TD
At issue is a 1985 regulation, 123/85, exempting carmakers from a general EC Treaty ban on restrictive business agreements (Article 85) so that they can establish their own networks of outlets for sales and after-sale service.

The wording of that regulation has raised questions on whether and to what extent agents outside official networks can  import  cars from one EC country to another when "parallel  imports" are strictly speaking illegal.

Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan has circulated proposals to EC states for a "clarification" legitimising imports by independent agents -- "mandataire" firms in EC jargon -- which  import  cars cheaply from nearby EC countries to meet orders collected from consumers.

The crux of the problem in the regulation is that private individuals are free to  import  a car from another EC country but that companies cannot set up to  import  in parallel to official networks. The "mandataire" falls between the two because he is acting on behalf of private consumers.

Commission officials say the core of Brittan's plan is to cap the number of vehicles official dealers could sell to independent  import  agents such as Rouen-based  Ecosystem.

A dealer which is part of any carmakers' official network could sell to independent agents up to 10 per cent of the total number of cars its sells.

Some countries, notably France and Italy, have reservations about the Brittan plan linked to a malaise about the possibility that parallel  imports within the EC could undermine their national quotas on Japanese cars, the officials add.

Other aspects of Brittan's plan would cover how independent  import  agents advertise for business -- limiting the chance that consumers could confuse them with official dealers.

Brittan had planned to put his proposals to colleagues this week but the issue was pushed off the agenda and it is still unclear whether it will be discussed at next Wednesday's Commission meeting or at a later date.

The officials said the "clarification" would be made at the same time as the Commission issued its verdict on the sales restrctions  Peugeot had tried to apply to stop  Ecosystem buying from Peugeot dealers in Belgium and Luxembourg.

The Commission has sought to deal with the  Ecosystem case and the wider issue of independent import  agents at the same time. It imposed interim measures last year which forced  Peugeot to end restrictions on sales to  Ecosystem pending the outcome of its full inquiries.

Page 5 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Those measure were backed by the Court of First Instance last July.

A separate but extremely relevant inquiry into car pricing is still underway in the Commission and unlikely to be completed until some time early next year, the officials say.

The European consumer association BEUC has lodged a complaint with the Commission after a survey it carried out showed differences of up to 19 per cent in the price charged for the same type of car from one EC country to another.

Regulation 123/85 says carmakers' exclusive dealership agreements should not lead to price variations of more than 12 per cent.

That regulation expires in 1995 and officials say the outcome of the Commission's price inquiry will determine whether that regulation will be extended or modified.

The underlying priciple of what the Commission will decide after that inquiry, the officials add, is that there must be a single market in cars and that business agreements which cause restrictions and abusive pricing will not be tolerated.
IN           i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles

NS          c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE          belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN          Document lba0000020011124dnbl07c0q













































Page 6 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD            Europe braces for tailpipe  standards
BY            DIANA T. KURYLKO Staff Reporter
WC           1,100 words
PD            25 November 1991
SN            Automotive News
SC            AUTN
LA             English
CY            (Copyright 1991 Crain Communications Inc.)

LP
BRUSSELS - The European auto industry is bracing for the inevitable - new emissions standards to curb pollution and improve fuel  economy.

The pressure is coming from both regulators and environmentalists because of the growing realization that Europe is far behind world standards. They need only look at the United States, which has
passed a second major revision of its Clean Air Act.

TD
A host of studies and proposals - among them a new energy tax - will be considered at a meeting next month of environmental and energy ministers of the 12-nation European Community.

To date, European carmakers have taken a different approach to environmental issues than U.S. manufacturers. Where American carmakers, spurred by legislative pressure, have focused on emissions standards and fuel  economy,  Europeans are pioneers in car recycling and traffic management.

Volkswagen AG announced in September that it will take back and recycle every Golf3 at the end of its service life, the first major carmaker to make such a commitment. The announcement set off a chain reaction from the competition.

General Motors Europe and BMW have jumped in with voluntary programs. Ford of Europe has been cautious and only recently opened a pilot disassembly plant. France has set up a pilot recycling system. A Volvo program pays owners for their old cars.

Volvo has used recycled materials, such as rags and pieces of recycled polyurethane, to make insulating mats, said Ulf Jansson, environmental coordinator for Volvo Car Corp. in Sweden. A year ago, Volvo started to mark plastic components, based on an international standard, to identify what kind of plastic was used, Jansson said.

Peugeot SA operates a disassembly plant that can dismantle 16 cars a day using four people working eight hours, or 7,040 vehicles during the next two years. The disassembled components weigh an average of 363 pounds per car.

Similarly, BMW's new 3 series has been designed with an emphasis on recycling its components. For instance, the instrument panel now yields 13.2 pounds of reusable plastic, compared with 6.6 pounds on the old model.
But recycling has its problems.

"It will not provide the total answer unless  economics are ignored completely," said John Whittaker, group environment controller for the Bird Group, which is developing a dismantling program for Britain's Rover Group.

For instance, polymers are a small but significant part of shredded waste from cars, but 24 different polymers are used in the average car, Whittaker said.

"It will be 15 to 20 years before cars designed for recycling are entering the disassembly centers in volume," he said.

Page 7 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
No one is certain who will pay for the recycling programs. But at a recent environmental conference in Brussels, industry participants pointed to the recycling efforts as evidence that self-regulatory programs work.

At the conference, industry representatives warned that not just the car, but the driver, fuel and the transportation system must be part of an EC environmental policy.

"The European automobile industry is aware of the growing environmental concern about road transportation," said John Hillis, director of transport policy and regulations for the Association des Constructeurs Europeen d'Automobiles, the European manufacturers' association.

"It is willing to accept its responsibility." But Hillis urged self-regulation for the industry and said the European Community should also look at alternative fuels - a point often argued in the U.S. clean-air debate.

But environmentalists like Fiona Weir, senior air pollution and climate change campaigner for Friends of the Earth, the international  ecology  group, say industry acts only when there is a law.

"We intend to make gas guzzlers go the way of the fur coat - people will be too ashamed to buy them," she said.

The European carmakers are trailing the United States in controlling emissions. Carmakers in the United States have had to install three-way catalytic converters since 1981 to meet pollution standards. But in Europe, they will not be mandatory on all cars until the end of 1992.
Some makers, including Mercedes-Benz and BMW, already have complied. Ford of Europe and
General Motors have not, despite long experience by their parent firms in the United States.

The European Parliament proposed carbon dioxide emissions standards in June that would limit emissions based on engine size, an attempt to set fuel consumption levels for the first time. But the EC is still studying that proposal.

Germany has proposed similar standards. The German plan would require gasoline-powered cars weighing less than 1,760 pounds when empty to achieve fuel  economy  of about 60 mpg; a 2,420 pound car, 46 mpg; and a 3,000 pound car, 36 mpg.

The EC also is studying the latest amendments to the U.S. Clean Air Law and whether to implement similar pollution standards. The stricter U.S. tailpipe standards are to begin in 1994, and will apply to
40 percent of the cars produced in the 1995 model year.
Some EC officials have taken a hard line on automobile exhaust.

"Pollution by vehicles is one of the main components of urban problems," said Prudencio Perera, head of the EC's urban environment unit, at the Brussels conference.

Perera said the  European Commission's recent "Green Paper" on the urban environment clearly points the finger at the automobile as a main cause of environmental degradation.

"This involves not just air pollution, but also noise, traffic congestion and secondary affects in terms of consumption of space for roads and parking," he said.

Perera said the auto industry has claimed "enormous possibilities for making vehicles more environmentally friendly," but continues to suggest timetables that "often are not realistic."

"We are getting in quite late," Perera said, "but soon there will not be any difference between the U.S. and Europe."
Meanwhile, EC commissioners have passed an energy-tax proposal that would begin in 1993 with a
$1 levy on every barrel of oil, rising to $10 by 2000. The auto industry favors the proposal, because it
would rather see higher fuel prices than a U.S.-style corporate average fuel  economy  standard.

"The user will pay, and the major  importance is that it will have an educational effect" by making gasoline more expensive, said Claude Gerryn, Ford of Europe manager of environmental and government affairs.

The plastic manifold cover for BMW's new 3-series engine is made with a lost-metal method; the manifold is recyclable, and the metal is reused.


Page 8 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The BMW 3-series instrument panel yields 13.2 pounds of reusable plastic, compared with 6.6 pounds in the one it replaced.
IN             i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i353 : Motor Vehicle Parts | iaut : Automobiles
AN            Document autn000020011109dnbp000dv

































































Page 9 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          EC SET TO LOOSEN CONTROLS OVER CHEAP CAR IMPORTS. BY           By Brian Love
WC          668 words
PD           27 November 1991
SN           Reuters News
SC           LBA
LA           English
CY           (c) 1991 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, Reuter - The European Commission is set to curb car manufacturers' tight control over sales by allowing independent agents to import  cheaper cars in limited numbers from one European Community country for sale in another.
The changes could make it far easier for EC citizens to buy cars more cheaply elsewhere in the
12-nation bloc if prices at home are high.

TD
Commission officials say Brussels' move follows attempts by  Peugeot SA to stop a French agent called Ecosystem importing Peugeot cars from Benelux countries for pre-arranged sale to French consumers who would pay more at home.

Since 1985 carmakers have enjoyed an exemption from EC rules covering fair competition which allows them to operate exclusive retail and service networks.

The exemption means  imports between EC countries by anyone except private individuals are banned.
But what agents such as  Ecosystem are and are not allowed to do has never been entirely clear.

Now the EC's Competition Commissioner, Sir Leon Brittan, plans to clarify the rules so that firms such as Ecosystem can do business provided they  import  only to meet orders collected from consumers and that the traffic does not pass set limits.

Commission officials say proposals recently circulated by Brittan to national governments would permit carmakers' official retailers to release up to 10 per cent of their total sales to independent  import agents.

France and Italy, worried that their national  import  quotas on cars from Japan might be undermined, are unenthusiastic about Brittan's ideas and want the screws turned tighter on  imports coming through other EC countries, EC sources say.

Private individuals theoretically have the right to  import  a car for personal use, but travel and administrative barriers in the Community pose a considerable deterrent.

Basic prices for the same car vary by up to 18 per cent on average across the 12 EC countries, according to a detailed study carried out by European consumer organisation BEUC. The difference can be far larger between two specific countries.

In Denmark, for instance, one type of Fiat Uno cost 4,293 European Currency Units (Ecus) ($5,495 at current rates) net of tax in 1989 compared with 7,663 Ecus ($9,808) in Britain, the BEUC report shows.

Some Commission officials say Brittan's move, if approved by the rest of the 17-member Commission, could be the beginning of the end for manufacturers' stranglehold on prices.

Given legal security,  importers such as Ecosystem are likely to thrive for as long as price variations exist, in turn putting pressure on carmakers to narrow those differences.


Page 10 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Perhaps more importantly, the Commission has now picked up on the BEUC report and is carrying out a full price inquiry of its own to see whether more drastic action against carmakers is needed.

The current rules allowing exclusive sales networks recommend that a manufacturer's price for any one car should not vary by more than about 12 per cent across the Community.

But the rules expire in 1995. The Commission will find it hard to renew them since by then the EC will be a real single market within which all goods can move freely around the 12-nation bloc.

Brussels could then either remove the exemption from competition rules from specific carmakers, or, more drastically, do away with the exemption altogether.
For the moment the Commission will limit its decision to the  Ecosystem case and declaring
"mandated" agents legitimate, officials say. The EC executive could decide as early as next week.

Ecosystem, which imports more than 1,000  Peugeot cars into France a year, is currently protected by an injunction delivered by the EC Court of Justice in July which denied  Peugeot the right to refuse to sell to the Rouen-based agent.

Peugeot had ordered its Belgian and Luxembourg dealers to stop selling to  Ecosystem but the Commission told the French carmaker in March 1990 to lift the restrictions pending the court's interim decision.
CO          fiat : Fiat SpA | fiatx : | peugct : PSA Peugeot Citroen SA | peugctx :
IN            i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles
NS           c31 : Marketing | c311 : Domestic Markets | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
| eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE           eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN           Document lba0000020011124dnbr07kt7






































Page 11 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD    Industrial policy  debated by EC members
WC    1,317 words
PD     3 December 1991
SN     NTIS Foreign Technology Newsletter NTIS, U.S. Department of Commerce
SC     FTNW
VOL  Vol. 91, No. 49
LA     English
CY     COPYRIGHT 1991 by NTIS, U.S. Department of Commerce

LP
The past year has seen increased lobbying by European governments and companies for the European Community (EC) to adopt a strong industrial policy to maintain the competitiveness of European industry. These calls for Europe-wide industrial policy measures have been attributed to the effects of the current recession and to the serious difficulties of the Community's two largest  economic sectors - automobiles and electronics - in the face of strong competition from Japan.

Proposals include research subsidies, tariff and trade-quota protection, and demand stimulation through preferential government purchases. Close cooperation between European firms or mergers to form European "champions" has also been recommended. Some supporters of industrial policy have called for the creation of a European version of Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) to coordinate cooperation between government and industry.

TD
In the industrial policy debate, European governments are roughly divided into northern and southern camps, with the United Kingdom, Germany, and The Netherlands generally favoring a market-oriented, laissez-faire approach, and the Community's southern tier, led by France, leaning toward more
government involvement. French Premier Edith Cresson has said that promotion of an EC industrial policy will be a major priority of her Government. One of her first acts in office was to merge the Ministry of Industry with the Ministry for Economy,  Finance & the Budget to form a "superministry" of finance
modeled on MITI to deal with economics, foreign trade, industry, and telecommunications. France has circulated a memorandum to the EC Commission and the individual member states recommending subsidies, tariffs, and industrial mergers to aid the European electronics industry.

In addition to the split in opinion among European governments regarding industrial policy directions, the shortage of government funds available for research subsidies and other aids, and the constraints of EC competition policy present obstacles to formulation of a strategy to support and protect European industries. A further obstacle is the increasing presence of Japanese firms as producers in Europe. The Japanese now hold a substantial interest in nearly 670 European companies.

EC Commission Guidelines

In October 1990, the  EC Commission for the first time attempted to define a general industrial policy for the Community. After difficult and protracted negotiations, it agreed on a set of guidelines. The Commission report, entitled Industrial Policy in an Open and Competitive Environment, rejected many of the interventionist measures that had characterized past efforts by individual members and recommended limiting the role of government to creating a sound  economic environment in which individual firms would have to depend on their own efforts to remain competitive.

The report states that government efforts to aid specific industries had been unsuccessful or counterproductive in the past and should be avoided in the future, since they were costly and tended to delay the "structural adaptations" needed to make industry competitive. It warned that government subsidies to industry could restrict competition and impede the  economic unification of Europe.

The report also called for continued enforcement of antitrust laws and criticized the policy of sponsoring "national champion" companies, citing the example of the data processing sector, "where Europe has consistently failed to produce internationally competitive suppliers in spite of massive public support."

The Commission's guidelines propose supporting European industries through efforts to improve general business conditions, including improving the pool of skilled manpower with better education and training, support for pre-competitive research, and improvements in infrastructure. Reductions in state aid within

Page 12 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
the Community would be accompanied by efforts to bring about parallel subsidy and tariff reductions by the EC's trading partners.
Policy Proposal for the Electronics Industry

In March 1991, the Commission proposed a series of measures to implement its hands-off industrial policy guidelines for the specific needs of the European electronics sector. In presenting the final report, Technology Commissioner Filippo Maria Pandolfi made it clear that no additional money could be made available to support the electronics industry. Funding for the Commission's proposals would instead have
to be drawn from existing R&D programs. The report, entitled The European Electronics and Information Technology Industry - State of Play, Issues at Stake and Proposals for Action, assessed the problems of the electronics sector and recommended Community action in five areas :

Stimulate demand for information technology products through projects such as the establishment of links among government databases throughout Europe;
Consider launching a "second generation" of research and development projects in areas such as
software, computer-aided manufacturing, and telecommunications (efforts in this area should be expanded
from pre-competitive R&D to include projects "geared more closely to the market");
Initiate and support multidisciplinary training projects;
Seek equal access for European information technology products in non-EC markets;

Improve the general business environment by speeding up harmonization of standards, promoting the availability of risk capital, and encouraging technological cooperation among European companies.
Continuing Controversy

In the months since March, industry leaders have continued to lobby for greater support from their Governments and the Community. In April, after the announcement of major losses by France's largest electronics groups, Bull and Thomson, the French Government called for greater cooperation among European electronics companies and increased funding for research. It also announced capital infusions
of FF4 billion (apprx. $690 million) for Bull and FF2 billion (apprx. $345 million) for Thomson, as well as an additional FF3 billion (apprx. $517 million) for Bull's R&D projects over the next three years.

Later the same month,  EC Commission President Jacques Delors, Technology Commissioner Pandolfi, and Industry Commissioner Martin Bangemann met with the heads of Europe's five largest electronics companies to discuss their demands for more extensive support than that detailed in the Commission's March plan .

An April meeting of the EC Council of Industry Ministers also dealt with further measures to help the European electronics industry. While most participants expressed opposition to direct subsidies to individual companies, the majority reportedly favored closer cooperation among European semiconductor producers and protection for the semiconductor industry . The British and Irish ministers, however, opposed protectionist measures. The British argued they would adversely affect European manufacturers and consumers of electronics products, while Ireland was concerned about the impact of tariffs on its own factories, which assemble non-European components for foreign companies.

At a session of the Intergovernmental Conference on Political Union in May, a French proposal to include a chapter on industrial policy in the future Union Treaty was vetoed by the representatives of Britain, Germany, and The Netherlands, who expressed concern that this could encourage protectionism. The French, supported by the Belgians, the Spanish, and the Italians, maintained that their proposal was in line with the Commission's October guidelines.

More recently, the Commission has begun to investigate whether the capital subsidy and research aid granted by the French Government to Bull is compatible with Community competition rules. The French Government must prove that the nationalized company was not granted assistance because it was in trouble, but that the aid was an "injection of capital on the part of the majority shareholder, in this case the state." Otherwise, the Commission could require that Bull reimburse to the French treasury part of the funds it received.
Automobile Policy

A partial resolution of the question of future EC policy toward the automobile industry came with the voluntary trade restraint agreement reached between EC and Japanese negotiators. Under the terms of the agreement, Japan will freeze its automobile  exports  to the Community at their current level for a


Page 13 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
period of seven years, after which all restraints are to be lifted. During the same period, Japanese plants in
Europe will be permitted to increase production to 1.2 million cars a year.

While Renault chairman Raymond Levy pronounced the agreement acceptable,  Peugeot head Jacques Calvet condemned it as "detestable," warning it would result in unemployment, a lowered standard of living, and loss of technology.o
NS     gcat : Political/General News | gsci : Science/Technology
AN     Document ftnw000020011109dnc300002





























































Page 14 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     EC clarifies rule of the road for cross-border car sales
WC    314 words
PD     4 December 1991
SN     Agence France-Presse
SC     AFPR
LA      English
CY     (Copyright 1991)

LP
BRUSSELS, Dec 4 (AFP) - Regulations for fair competition in the European Community (EC) do not permit supermarkets to compete head-on with car distributors, the  EC commission decided on Wednesday, clarifying conditions under which EC nationals may buy a car anywhere in the community.

In 1985 the commission laid down 10-year rules authorising private intermediaries to buy a French-made car for example in Belgium or Luxembourg where the pre-tax price is less than in France.

TD
The European consumers' organisation has said that 30,000 cars are bought by French nationals in
Belgium each year through this arrangement.
The rapid growth of this so-called parallel trade has put pressure on manufacturers' official  distribution
and maintencance networks which provide work for two million people in the community.

Manufacturers hold that the trend could undermine the profitability of dealer networks providing after-sales service to the farthest points of Europe, and would mean that Japanese car firms would not be able to respect their commitment to limit sales in protected national markets.

Consequently the French  Peugeot manufacturer has prevented its networks in Belgium and Luxembourg from selling cars to the French specialist intermediary company,  Ecosystem of Rouen in north western France.

But on Wednesday the commission told  Peugeot to lift this ban, while clarifying the regulations to take account of some of the points raised by the manufacturers.

If Peugeot does not respect the decision, the commission would withdraw authorisation to maintain exclusive and selective dealer outlets in Belgium and Luxembourg, the commission said.

From now on the intermediaries will no longer be permitted to give the impression that they amount to a sales network with a common sales mark.
They may not operate from areas in supermarkets unless the site is clearly separate from the store. more AFP AFP SEQN-0280

IPD    Financial
AN     Document afpr000020011108dnc400wag













Page 15 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD   COMMISSION TO CLARIFY POSITION OF INTERMEDIARIES IN CAR SALES. WC  132 words
PD   4 December 1991
SN   Agence Europe
SC   AGEU
LA    English
CY   (c) 1991 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .

LP
BRUSSELS, 03/12/1991 (AGENCE EUROPE) - On Wednesday, the European Commission is expected to adopt its communication concerning intermediaries involved in the sale of cars. This is an important issue in its own right as well as because of its links with other files which are fundamental to the creation of the single market, such as the creation of the "EEC approval" of car models and the implementation of the informal arrangement with Japan. At the same time, the Commission will also express a position on a case related to the activity of intermediaries, namely the  Ecosystem/Peugeot case concerning sales in France of Peugeot cars exported  by the manufacturer to Belgium.
EUROPE will return with details tomorrow.

TD
(c) Agence EUROPE, Brussels 1991.

CO   peugct : PSA Peugeot Citroen SA | peugctx :
IN     i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles
NS   c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General
News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE   eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN   Document ageu000020011124dnc400le1





























Page 16 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD                  EC Says Peugeot Ban On Sales To French Dealership  Illegal
WC                 417 words
PD                  4 December 1991
SN                  Dow Jones News Service
SC                  DJ
LA                  English
CY                  (Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

LP
BRUSSELS -AP- The European Community Commission said French carmaker  Peugeot SA's ban on its dealers selling to French independent dealership  Ecosystem was illegal under EC rules.

In a statement, the Commission said  Ecosystem was operating ''essentially as an intermediary and not as a reseller.''

TD
The Commission said unless  Peugeot takes action to remove the ban within two months it will no longer be allowed to be the exclusive distributor for its Belgian and Luxembourg networks.
French-based Ecosystem helps French car buyers purchase French-made cars in Belgium and
Luxembourg, where they are cheaper.

Peugeot ordered its Belgian and Luxembourg dealers to stop supplying  Ecosystem because it believed the company was acting as a reseller.  Ecosystem cooperated with the Carrefour distribution chain in 1989, which raised doubts about its intermediary status, the carmaker said.
The Commission said that  Ecosystem clearly acted as an intermediary for named customers in
France on the basis of written instructions.

But Peugeot's action made it clear, the Commission said, that the EC needs to define more sharply what intermediary activities are compatible with the selective  distribution networks.

The European Community Commission said the decision would help ''clarify what exactly is permitted to intermediaries...while at the same time safeguarding the system of selective distribution.''

The Commission added that it would set down fresh guidelines to ''maintain the balance...between the need to protect the investment of car manufacturers in specialized dealer networks, and the consumer's right to buy a new car from outside his or her member state.''

A spokesman for  Peugeot in Paris later said that the decision of the  EC Commission was a satisfactory one because it didn't impose any fines and because the Commission clarified the rules and the definition of resellers. The Commission ''acknowledged that the laws were fuzzy'' when it didn't impose a fine, the spokesman said.

Peugeot has to withdraw its directive to the dealers, but the decision shows it ''wasn't completely in the wrong to fight,'' the spokesman said.

The EC guidelines say that intermediaries mustn't use or advertise in a way that leads the public to believe they are authorized distributors.

The intermediary must buy under normal market conditions and isn't allowed to develop privileged relations with any one authorized dealer, the Commission said in a statement. No dealer may sell more than 10 pc of annual sales through one intermediary, it added.
2:32 PM
CO                 peugct : PSA Peugeot Citroen SA
Page 17 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
PUB               Dow Jones & Company
AN                  Document dj00000020011109dnc402dlg




































































Page 18 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          EC MAKES IT EASY TO BUY CHEAP CARS ABROAD. BY          By Brian Love
WC         494 words
PD          4 December 1991
SN          Reuters News
SC          LBA
LA           English
CY          (c) 1991 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, Dec 4, Reuter - European Community motorists should soon be able to buy cut-price cars abroad almost as easily as they do the family shopping.

European Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan said on Wednesday changes in European Community rules meant anyone from a small agent to a supermarket chain could now  import  cars from other Community countries to sell to people who would pay far more at home.

TD
"This...is above all in the interests of consumers, confirming their right to use the service of intermediaries to shop for cars in other (EC) member states" Brittan said after the reforms were approved by the EC's executive  European Commission.

He told a news conference that carmakers had until now interpreted EC laws as giving them the sole right to sell and move cars around the 12 Community states through their own exclusive  distribution networks.

The only way for consumers to get a cheap car in another EC country was to go there themselves -- with all the travel, language and administrative problems that this implied.

Brittan said the Commission had decided to clarify the rules after Peugeot SA illegally told its Benelux dealers not to sell cars to an independent French agent called Ecosystem, which imported the cars for pre-arranged sale to French consumers.

Less than five per cent or total EC cars sales currently involve cross-border  imports, Brittan's advisers say.

"Intermediaries have found an ingenious method of obtaining cars," Brittan said. Any enterprising group could follow suit now that the business had clear legal security.

"It's not the Commission's fault if there aren't people in Britain with enough gumption to set up such a system," Brittan said when asked why there had so far been no attempt there to follow the example of Ecosystem.

Large price differences from one country to another were a perfect incentive for intermediary agencies, he added.

A Commission statement set out the conditions for running such a business. Networks of intermediaries could not use a common name on all branches as this could cause confusion with official networks.

They could only buy to fill orders collected in advance and with fully transparent contract terms, including liability for transport and delivery.

Display cars could only be those belonging to staff or awaiting pick-up by clients but advertising would generally be legitimate as long as there was no confusion with carmakers' retail outlets.

The statement said supermarkets would have to ensure that any business they started in this field would have to be clearly distinct from their other commerical activities.

Page 19 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Brittan said the change would not undermine an agreement by Japan to limit  exports  to the
Community until the end of the decade.

Imports  via other EC countries could be included in quotas which France and some other countries used to limit Japanese penetration of their market for a few more years.
IN           i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles
NS          c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General
News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE          eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN          Document lba0000020011124dnc4075wo


























































Page 20 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        EC ALTERS CAR RULES TO ALLOW PARALLEL  IMPORTS. BY        By Brian Love
WC       1,034 words
PD        4 December 1991
SN        Reuters News
SC        LBA
LA         English
CY        (c) 1991 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, Dec 4, Reuter - The European Commission clarified an EC regulation on Wednesday to legitimise the business of agents who want to import  cars to save money for their clients by taking advantage of price differentials between one European Community country and another.

The Commission approved a clarification of EC Regulation 123/85 to give such agents legal security. The law had previously been interpreted as barring cross-border  imports by any firm other than the manufacturers' exclusive sales and service networks.

TD
The only way for a consumer to get a cheap car in another EC country has been to go there, facing travel, language and administrative problems.

"This clarification is above all in the interests of consumers, confirming their right to use the service of intermediaries to shop for cars in other member states," competition Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan said.
Brittan said the Commission's move went hand in hand with an order that Peugeot SA could not tell its
Benelux dealers to stop selling cars to an independent French agent called Ecosystem, which
pre-arranges sales with consumers in France.

Peugeot has been given two months to confirm the abolition of restrictions at the risk of losing its right under the regulation to have an exclusive sales netowrk.

Until now less than five per cent or total EC car sales have involved cross-border  imports by intermediaries, Brittan's advisers say.

"The selective (carmakers')  distribution system, for right or wrong, has been set up for sales of cars...Intermediaries have found an ingenious method of obtaining cars," Brittan said.

He was referring to the fact that Regulation 123, agreed in 1985, was not going to be quashed in the immediate future.

The regulation was intended to allow for networks to be established guaranteeing quality and after sales service.

But Brittan's advisers admitted the regulation was flawed in that it had not foreseen that the manufacturers would not allow sales between their dealers in different EC countries -- opting instead to compartmentalise markets and control prices.

Brittan said the reform created a "safety valve" which would not undermine carmaker's exclusive distribution systems and that conditions had been set to make sure there was no confusion between those networks and independent agents or intermediaries.

Any group could now follow the example of  Ecosystem, he said. Large price differences from one country to another were an incentive for intermediary agencies, he added.




Page 21 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
"It's not the Commission's fault if there aren't people in Britain with enough gumption to set up such a system," Brittan added when asked why there had so far been no attempt to set up such operations in Britain.
Commission statement IP/91/1079 set conditions for running such a business.

Networks of intermediaries could not use a common name because this could cause confusion with official networks.

They could only buy to meet orders collected in advance on fully transparent contract terms and prices and they would be liable for such matters as transport and delivery.

Display cars could only be those belonging to staff or awaiting pick-up by clients but advertising would generally be legitimate as long as there was no confusion with carmakers' official retail chains.

The statement said supermarkets would have to ensure that any business they started in this field was clearly distinguished from their other commerical activities.
The only limit on the volume of parallel  imports is that any one offical dealer can only sell a maximum of
10 per cent of his total annual sales to any one intermediary.
Brittan said the changes would not undermine an agreement which committed Japan to restrain its car
exports  to the Community until the end of the decade.

If intermediaries imported Japanese cars from Belgium into France, France could include those when monitoring overall imports for as long as its quotas applied, he said.

Brittan declined to confirm a separate decision on Wednesday to reject complaints by importers of cars made by the smaller Japanese manufacturers against the share-out of France's current import  quota between the big Japanese firms.

But other officials said the Commission had indeed decided not to take action against France to change the fact that Subaru, Isuzu, Daihatsu and Suzuki were unable to sell their cars there.

They said it was not in the Community's interest to fight over the issue since the deal with Japan would be followed by the ending of all restrictions on Japanese car  exports  to EC countries.

They also said the results of a Commission inquiry into car prices in the Community were unlikely to appear before early next year.

The EC Consumer group BEUC has attacked the very existence of Regulation 123/85 on the grounds that carmakers charge prices which vary by far more than the average 12 per cent ma rgin across the Community allowed by the regulation.

Brittan admitted that official dealers had not been selling to each other across national borders and linked the problem indirectly to the limits in choice of models and the existence of large price differentials.

But he made it clear that he did not have any plans in the near or even medium term to scrap the regulation which comes up for renewal in 1995. Intermediaries could work well alongside the exclusive distribution system, he said.

"The possibility of parallel  imports and the availability of efficient intermediary operations for the benefit of consumers serve, of course, to reinforce the case for maintaining a system of selective (exclusive) distribution, even after 1995, insofar as they weaken the presumption that price differentials can be attributed to the operation of regulation 123/85."

But Commission officials said this did not rule out the possibility that certain carmakers might find themselves denied the protection of the regulation if they were found to be abusing the rights it conferred on them.

Regulation 123 offers carmakers what is known as a block exemption from a general ban on restrictive business agreements laid down in Article 85(1) of the EC treaty so that they can set up their networks. The exemption can be removed in individual cases.
CO        peugct : PSA Peugeot Citroen SA | peugctx :
IN          i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles


Page 22 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
NS        c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN        Document lba0000020011124dnc40761b


































































Page 23 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          COMMISSION CLARIFIES RULES ON BUYING CARS ABROAD. WC         281 words
PD          4 December 1991
SN          Reuters News
SC          LBA
LA          English
CY          (c) 1991 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, Dec 4, Reuter - European Community motorists should soon be able to buy cut-price cars abroad almost as easily as they do the family shopping.

In a clarification of regulation 123/85 issued on Wednesday the European Commission legalised the operations of agencies which buy cars where they are cheapest in the Community and import  them for sale to people who would pay far more for the same car at home.

TD
Until now the regulation had been interpreted as banning car imports from one EC country to another by agents who were not part of the carmakers' official distribution networks.

The only way for consumers to get a cheap car in another EC country was to go there themselves -- with all the travel, language and administrative problems that this implied.

The Commission said in a statement it had ordered French carmaker Peugeot SA to end restrictions on sales by its official Benelux dealers to an independent French agent called Ecosystem, which imported the cars for pre-arranged sale to French consumers.

Ecosystem and any similar intermediary can now take advantage of differing prices across the Community to  import  cars as long as they have collected orders from consumers in advance, the Commission said.

The Commission also said it had set limits on the way such agents advertised so that there would be no confusion between them and the official dealer networks run by car manufacturers.

Supermarkets and chain stores will also be able to get into the business if they respect certain advertising rules and other conditions, the statement added.
The French supermarket chain Leclerc is already involved in the cheap car  imports.
CO         peugct : PSA Peugeot Citroen SA | peugctx :
IN           i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles

NS          c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE          eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN          Document lba0000020011124dnc407654












Page 24 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        EC hints at car sales policy  change
BY         By ANDREW HILL and JOHN GRIFFITHS
WC        439 words
PD         5 December 1991
SN         Financial Times
SC         FTFT
PG        London Page 20
LA         English
CY         (c) 1991 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
EUROPEAN carmakers' efforts to freeze out intermediary companies offering to supply cars at cheaper prices across Community borders took a knock yesterday from Sir Leon Brittan, the EC competition commissioner.
He also raised a question over the whole issue of manufacturers' exclusive dealerships in the EC.

TD
Sir Leon rejected a complaint by  Peugeot of France that  Ecosystem, a Rouen-based intermediary, was reselling on the open market in France cars bought in Belgium and Luxembourg.  Peugeot had ordered its dealers in those countries to stop supplying  Ecosystem.

By upholding the right of intermediaries to  import  cars on behalf of individual customers, Sir Leon signalled his desire to end EC car manufacturers' exclusive dealerships. Brussels warned the French carmaker that it would lift the protected status of its dealerships in the two countries if its ban was not withdrawn within two months.

The activities of the intermediary companies form part of a growing controversy over differential car prices inside the EC.

Research ordered by the  European Commission, and now in the hands of EC competition officials, shows that car prices in the UK, for example, are up to 30 per cent higher - and up to 80 per cent higher on a pre-tax basis - than in some other EC markets.

The still-confidential research says car pricing structures in the EC are so complex that they are impossible for consumers to unravel.

It calls for manufacturers to be obliged to produce certain standardised 'reference' models, the prices of which would be denominated in European Currency Units (Ecus).

Sir Leon, who has to tread a difficult political line between the desires of protectionists and liberals in the sensitive car sector, yesterday also sought to clarify the intermediary system by laying out, in effect, a code of acceptable buying and marketing practices.

The commissioner was careful not to imply a threat to the existing 10-year agreement which grants exclusive dealerships block exemption from EC competition rules, which would otherwise demand that they freely supply cars to other sales outlets across the EC.
France, in particular, considers the regulation a vital safeguard against the uncontrolled  import  of
Japanese cars.

But it is an open secret that EC competition officials are uncomfortable with the exemption, which sits uneasily with the 1992 programme to break down internal Community barriers, and also with the July agreement between the EC and Japan on gradual opening of the EC car market.
Unipart in deal with Land Rover Page 8

Green pressure Page 11

Page 25 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Management Page 12
Ford to shake up Jaguar board Page 21
IN          i651 : Automobile Dealing | i6511 : New Car Dealing | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores |
iaut : Automobiles
PUB      The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN         Document FTFT000020070429dnc501gsy






























































Page 26 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD   COMMISSION RULES ON PEUGEOT/ECOSYSTEM CASE. WC  366 words
PD   5 December 1991
SN   Agence Europe
SC   AGEU
LA    English
CY   (c) 1991 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .

LP
The commission decides that  Peugeot could not refuse authorization to its French, Belgian and
Luxembourg dealers to supply vehicles to  Eco-system.
BRUSSELS, 04/12/1991 (AGENCE EUROPE) - The European Commission has decided that the May
1989 refusal by the companies  Peugeot SA and Automobiles Peugeot SA (France) to authorise their
French, Belgian and Luxembourg dealers (the latter complied with the refusal) to supply vehicles to the
Eco System firm constituted an agreement or, at least, a concerted practice banned by Article 85-1 of the
EC Treaty. It enjoins  Peugeot to put an end to such an infringement within two months. After this time, the
benefits contained in the 1985 EC ruling - which authorises the selective distribution of automobiles -
could be withdrawn from the standard contract for exclusive and selective distribution of Peugeot cars in
Belgium and Luxembourg.

TD
The Commission calls upon  Peugeot to send its French, Belgian and Luxembourg dealers a circular letter cancelling that of 1989, and to refrain from any further behaviour that could preserve the effects in question.

EUROPE recalls that the Commission, through a decision on March 1990, had imposed provisional measures upon Peugeot for it to allow  EcoSystem  to safeguard its activities within certain limits. The decision was confirmed by the Court of First Instance on 12 July 1991. The new decision constitutes a concrete example of the Commission's acknowledgement of the right of intermediaries to act and which assures, on behalf of third persons, the purchase of vehicles outside the selective  distribution circuits (see article below).

EUROPE recalls that  EcoSystem  is a service company established in Rouen (France) which helps French citizens to carry out car purchases in Belgium and Luxembourg. Although  EcoSystem  operates on the basis of written mandates from named clients,  Peugeot considered that in reality this company was engaged in an activity equivalent to that of a reseller, in view of its professional character. In particular, EcoSystem  had, for several months in 1988/89, cooperated with the Carrefour  distribution chain. EcoSystem  put an end to this cooperation which was a small part of its activities and could have been somewhat confusing for consumers.
(c) Agence EUROPE, Brussels 1991.

CO   peugct : PSA Peugeot Citroen SA | peugctx :
IN     i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles
NS   c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General
News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE   eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN   Document ageu000020011124dnc500lht







Page 27 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE        European News
HD         EC Commission Refuses to Ban Car Imports,  Sales by Non-Dealers
BY        By Martin du Bois
CR        Staff Reporter
WC       725 words
PD        5 December 1991
SN        The Asian Wall Street Journal
SC        AWSJ
PG        PAGE 5
LA         English
CY        (Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.)

LP
BRUSSELS -- The European Community Commission took a small but significant step to ensure that
1992 will effectively mean lower prices and a single market for prospective car buyers.

The Commission ruled that independent operators -- small agents or even supermarket chains -- have the right to sell cars  imported from another EC member state. Car makers have attempted to ban the practice, because it undermines their exclusive, nationally based dealer networks.

TD
Despite EC attempts to create a single market for cars, prices for a similar model vary widely from one country to the next. For consumers, the lack of cross-border competition often translates into high prices.

Several months ago the community agreed to gradually open by the end of the century the protected markets of France, Italy, Britain, Spain and Portugal to Japanese auto makers. The Japanese makers started actively beefing up their European dealer networks, and this prompted worries that they would be able to use the lack of EC cross-border competition to their advantage by controlling prices and obtaining higher profit margins than European manufacturers did.

By encouraging effective cross-border competition, Wednesday's decision will help ensure that Japanese and European car makers are on the same footing, EC officials said. "The decision will help equalize competitive conditions," said one auto expert at the Commission. "This is in line with our policy to promote increased interbrand competition."

Car prices still vary widely throughout the EC. British prices, for example, are more than 30% higher than those in Belgium, according to the European consumer organization BEUC. But independent operators have taken advantage of these price differences, buying cheaper cars across the border and selling them for a profit at home.
One such independent operator is  Ecosysteme SA, a closely held company based in Rouen, France.
Ecosysteme importsPeugeot SA and other European-made cars, reselling them in France. In May
1989, Peugeot cracked down on the company, ordering its agents in Belgium and Luxembourg to stop
providing cars to Ecosysteme.

The Commission ruled Wednesday that  Peugeot's action was illegal because it contravenes the EC's rules on fair competition. It ordered the company to take corrective action within two months.

"This clarification is, above all, in the interests of consumers, confirming their right to use the service of intermediaries to shop for cars in other member states," said EC Competition Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan.  Peugeot declined to comment.

But the Commission also laid down some restrictions on the activities of the so-called intermediaries. Under the new rules, they may only act as agents for prospective buyers. They may not advertise themselves as official distributors or establish "privileged relationships" with their suppliers, such as buying cars in bulk in return for price concessions.
Page 28 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Ecosysteme Managing Director Jean-Claude Rouves welcomed the new rules, saying they would give companies like his the legal basis to operate successfully. "All of those who have tried (to act as independent agents) have run into trouble," Mr. Rouves said. "My first reaction is to say this is an excellent thing."

BEUC, the consumer organization, also welcomed the decision, but said the Commission had failed to tackle the problem at its roots, which is that car makers allegedly use their  distribution system to artificially fragment the EC market and prop up prices. "They're only nibbling at the edges," said BEUC's Virginia Graham.

Car makers are allowed to operate their exclusive  distribution networks only under a 10-year exemption granted by the  EC Commission in 1985. That exemption states that prices for similar models throughout the EC should not differ by more than 12%. About a year ago, the Commission launched a study to examine whether the exemption from EC competition law actually allows car makers to carve up the EC market, with the result that price differences are much wider than 12%. EC officials say the pricing problem is particularly acute for niche-market cars, like convertibles.

"We shall need to decide how far a system of exclusive  distribution systems rooted in different (EC) member states is consistent with the single market" before the exemption runs out in 1995, Sir Leon said. But he declined to say when the Commission would complete its investigation into car prices.
CO        peugct : PSA Peugeot Citroen SA

IN          i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | i838 : Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Public Relations/Marketing | iaut : Automobiles
NS        e51 : Trade/External Payments | e512 : Physical Trade | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union |
ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        asiaz : Asia | belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | fra : France | jap : Japan | lux : Luxembourg | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western Europe
AN        Document awsj000020011109dnc5009ej







































Page 29 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        EC ruling  paves way for cheap car imports from Continent. WC       631 words
PD        5 December 1991
SN        The Independent - London
SC        IND
PG        3
LA         English
CY        (c) 1991 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

LP
From SARAH LAMBERT in Brussels and IAN MACKINNON

The European Commission yesterday set out rules which should make it easier for individuals to import  cut-price new cars from continental Europe. Savings of up to #3,000 could be made on some models.

TD
The decision, hailed as a victory for consumer choice, clarifies a dispute that has rumbled on for more than a year, and will also allow agents to  import  cheaper vehicles to order.

In theory, drivers may buy a European car at the lowest price they can find. In practice, however, the big car manufacturers have used EC law as a justification for setting up exclusive dealerships, arguing that only they can provide the necessary technical expertise and after-sales service.
The very cheapest deals have generally only been available to the car-buyer prepared to go to the
Continent to take personal delivery of a vehicle.

Yesterday's move, which Sir Leon Brittan, the EC Commissioner responsible for competition policy, said was "above all in the interest of consumers", mainly concerns intermediary agents who  import  "to
order" for specified customers.

A French firm,  Ecosystem, set up a lucrative business in Rouen as a third-party agent buying cheap cars in the Benelux countries. The business was so successful that it expanded by teaming up with a supermarket giant, Carrefour.

However, Peugeot told its Benelux dealers, and in particular those in Belgium, where most of the vehicles were being bought, not to sell cars to  Ecosystem. Yesterday, the EC ruled this instruction illegal.

It said that an intermediary agent was quite free to trade, providing he was filling advance orders and issuing proper documentation that made him liable for transport and delivery.

Additionally, when advertising the service, he must not do anything that might lead the consumer to think he was selling cars, rather than acting as the middle-man. Any advertising that might confuse the agent with a dealer is forbidden.

Moreover, the EC has insisted that carmakers cannot give any one agent more than 10 per cent of annual sales in order to prevent a "special relationship" developing, keeping other would-be agents out of the market.

Sir Leon said that the decision provided an opportunity for entrepreneurs to step in. "It's not the commission's fault if people elsewhere haven't got enough gumption to set up such a system," he said.

Last night, the Consumers' Association, which has long campaigned for a levelling down of prices, said the decision would make it easier for individuals and intermediaries to  import  cheaper cars.



Page 30 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Jeremy Greensmith, a researcher for the association, said: "We welcome this in that it should help to stop consumers paying hugely inflated prices. But we would also like to see the abolition of exclusive dealerships, which we think are unnecessary."

However, Geoffrey Cockle, of the Society of Motor Manufacturers, said it merely represented a clarification of an existing situation. However, he refused to discuss car price differentials across Europe in advance of a Monopolies and Mergers Commission report on the subject, due to go the Government this month.

The EC is also investigating price differentials across the Community. While it accepts a certain variation in prices as the result of market forces, the gap may, in certain cases, be too high. A recent study found that pre-tax car prices varied by up to 49 per cent in the Community, with Denmark the cheapest and Italy and Spain among the most expensive.
Price comparison


Make  Model    Cheapest Country   How much more Saving (%)

in UK (pounds )


Audi   80 Belgium     2,406      25
Ford Fiesta 1.1LX    Belgium     1,971      32
Toyota Corolla   1.3GL    Belgium     2,368      31
Mercedes    190D     Denmark     2,974      22

CO        carforx : | ecosyl : ECOSYSTEMS LTD | ecosylx : | peugctx :
IN          i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i651 : Automobile Dealing |
iaut : Automobiles
NS        c31 : Marketing | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union |
gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
AN        Document ind0000020011124dnc5011fc

































Page 31 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        Auto Industry: EC Commission Acts to Open Borders  for Auto Competition
BY        By Martin Du Bois
CR        Staff Reporter
WC       723 words
PD        5 December 1991
SN        The Wall Street Journal Europe
SC        WSJE
PG        PAGE 5
LA         English
CY        (Copyright (c) 1991, Dow Jones & Co., Inc.)

LP
BRUSSELS -- The European Community Commission took a small but significant step to ensure that
1992 will effectively mean lower prices and a single market for prospective car buyers.

The Commission ruled that independent operators -- small agents or even supermarket chains -- have the right to sell cars  imported from another EC member state. Car makers have attempted to ban the practice, because it undermines their exclusive, nationally based dealer networks.

TD
Despite EC attempts to create a single market for cars, prices for a similar model vary widely from one country to the next. For consumers, the lack of cross-border competition often translates into high prices.

Several months ago the community agreed to gradually open by the end of the century the protected markets of France, Italy, Britain, Spain and Portugal to Japanese auto makers. The Japanese makers started actively beefing up their European dealer networks, and this prompted worries that they would be able to use the lack of EC cross-border competition to their advantage by controlling prices and obtaining higher profit margins than European manufacturers did.

By encouraging effective cross-border competition, Wednesday's decision will help ensure that Japanese and European car makers are on the same footing, EC officials said. "The decision will help equalize competitive conditions," said one auto expert at the Commission. "This is in line with our policy to promote increased interbrand competition."

Car prices still vary widely throughout the EC. British prices, for example, are more than 30% higher than those in Belgium, according to the European consumer organization BEUC. But independent operators have taken advantage of these price differences, buying cheaper cars across the border and selling them for a profit at home.
One such independent operator is  Ecosysteme SA, a closely held company based in Rouen, France.
Ecosysteme importsPeugeot SA and other European-made cars, reselling them in France. In May
1989, Peugeot cracked down on the company, ordering its agents in Belgium and Luxembourg to stop
providing cars to Ecosysteme.

The Commission ruled Wednesday that  Peugeot's action was illegal because it contravenes the EC's rules on fair competition. It ordered the company to take corrective action within two months.

"This clarification is, above all, in the interests of consumers, confirming their right to use the service of intermediaries to shop for cars in other member states," said EC Competition Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan.  Peugeot declined to comment.

But the Commission also laid down some restrictions on the activities of the so-called intermediaries. Under the new rules, they may only act as agents for prospective buyers. They may not advertise themselves as official distributors or establish "privileged relationships" with their suppliers, such as buying cars in bulk in return for price concessions.

Page 32 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Ecosysteme Managing Director Jean-Claude Rouves welcomed the new rules, saying they would give companies like his the legal basis to operate successfully. "All of those who have tried (to act as independent agents) have run into trouble," Mr. Rouves said. "My first reaction is to say this is an excellent thing."

BEUC, the consumer organization, also welcomed the decision, but said the Commission had failed to tackle the problem at its roots, which is that car makers allegedly use their  distribution system to artificially fragment the EC market and prop up prices. "They're only nibbling at the edges," said BEUC's Virginia Graham.

Car makers are allowed to operate their exclusive  distribution networks only under a 10-year exemption granted by the  EC Commission in 1985. That exemption states that prices for similar models throughout the EC should not differ by more than 12%. About a year ago, the Commission launched a study to examine whether the exemption from EC competition law actually allows car makers to carve up the EC market, with the result that price differences are much wider than 12%. EC officials say the pricing problem is particularly acute for niche-market cars, like convertibles.

"We shall need to decide how far a system of exclusive  distribution systems rooted in different (EC) member states is consistent with the single market" before the exemption runs out in 1995, Sir Leon said. But he declined to say when the Commission would complete its investigation into car prices.
CO        peugct : PSA Peugeot Citroen SA
IN          i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles
NS        e51 : Trade/External Payments | e512 : Physical Trade | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union |
ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        asiaz : Asia | belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | fra : France | italy : Italy | jap : Japan | lux : Luxembourg | medz : Mediterranean | porl : Portugal | spain : Spain | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
AN        Document wsje000020011110dnc500kd1






































Page 33 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Notice served on networks: A look at an EC car industry ruling
BY        By JOHN GRIFFITHS and ANDREW HILL
WC       820 words
PD        6 December 1991
SN        Financial Times
SC        FTFT
PG       London Page 16
LA        English
CY        (c) 1991 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
Sir Leon Brittan, the EC competition commissioner, this week served notice on European car makers that they will have to fight to retain their networks of exclusively franchised dealerships through which cars traditionally have been sold in Europe.

Sir Leon on Wednesday upheld the right of 'intermediary' companies - operating outside the franchised networks - to  import  cars on behalf of individual customers across EC member state boundaries. In so doing, he signalled his desire to end the franchise system - and potentially to open car sales up to a
'free-for-all' through outlets such as supermarkets - when the industry's exemption from EC competition rules expires in mid-1995.

TD
The exemption provides the underpinning for the sale and  distribution of cars throughout the EC. But critics claim it is at least partially responsible for the wide disparities in new car prices alleged to exist throughout the Community.

To gain the exemption in 1985, the industry argued that cars are exceptionally complex products, with important safety implications and requiring expert maintenance. Only dealers specifically franchised by manufacturers, and able to earn adequate profit margins and thus invest in proper equipment and training, could reasonably meet these requirements.

The industry still insists that this is the case. Critics, led by consumers' associations, are increasingly dubious - not least, they say, because cars have become so reliable, and because numerous surveys have found the standard of repair and servicing at franchised dealers no better than at independent garages.

The main issue, however, is the increasing public perception that cars would be cheaper, and with no real after-sales disadvantages, if sales became 'free' through a variety of outlets.
Despite his 'clarification' of the role which intermediaries can play in  importing cars across EC
boundaries, Sir Leon has not enabled them to set up rival sales outlets immediately.

Indeed, he took care to emphasise that the industry exemption system remains in place - not least to allay the concerns of France and Italy, which regard it as a crucial mechanism for monitoring Japanese car imports after the creation of the EC single market next year, and during the transition to a completely open market for cars by 1999.

What Sir Leon has done is to underline the intermediaries' existing right to operate within the exemption system. Broadly, he clarified the right of intermediaries to organise their activities as they wish, provided they confine themselves to securing a specific car for a named client, and do not seek to sell cars as if they were ordinary dealers.

What prompted the clarification was a complaint by  Peugeot of France that Ecosystem, a Rouen-based intermediary, was actually reselling in France cars bought in Belgium and Luxembourg. Peugeot
ordered its dealers in those countries to stop supplying  Ecosystem. The Commission rejected the complaint and ordered  Peugeot to lift the ban or lose the protected status of its dealers.


Page 34 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Sir Leon's action is not the only indicator that block exemption for the car industry may not survive, at least in its present form, after 1995.

Earlier this year Dr Klaus Stover, a now-retired senior Commission official responsible for much of the exemption's monitoring, told a Financial Times conference that the Commission would be unlikely to renew the exemption unless car prices between EC member states converged.

To the manufacturers' chagrin, virtually every independent survey of EC new car prices undertaken has found wide discrepancies, particularly between the UK and main continental markets.
The two most  important, unpublished, surveys were those undertaken for the UK's Monopolies and
Mergers Commission (MMC), and by the Motor Industry Research Unit (Miru) for the  EC Commission.

The MMC study found that pre-tax prices in the UK can be 50 per cent higher than in some other EC markets, and generally 20-30 per cent higher. However, its findings are only partially borne out by Miru, whose report is now in the Commission's hands.

Even when account is taken of exceptionally high discounts in the UK, prices of small cars in particular were up to 30 per cent higher than in other key markets, Miru found. But, it concluded, larger family cars were cheaper in the UK than in most other EC countries.

Miru's research refrains from blaming for the disparities on the exclusive franchise system. But it does conclude that manufacturers have made their model ranges and pricing structures in each country so disparate and so complicated that even the most sophisticated buyers are unable to untangle them.

The suspicion is widespread among consumer groups that this is deliberate, aimed at discouraging consumers from seeking cars abroad.

If the Miru research leads the Commission to reach a similar conclusion, it will do little to help the industry's case for the exemption to be retained - at least in its present form.
RE        uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
PUB     The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN        Document FTFT000020070429dnc601gpm



































Page 35 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE             BUSINESS PLUS
HD              EXPORTS KUWAITIS WANT 4WD FOR FAST GETAWAY WC            441 words
PD             9 December 1991
SN             St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SC             SLMO
ED             EDITION: FIVE STAR
PG             PAGE: 23
LA              English
CY             Copyright 1991, St. Louis Post-Dispatch. All Rights Reserved.

LP
Kuwaitis, whose preferred form of transportation used to be Cadillacs, are clamoring for four-wheel-drive vehicles that can go anywhere - a lesson of the Gulf War.

Some dealers say buyers are worried about another invasion and steering away from boulevard cruisers like the big American luxury car to vehicles capable of bouncing across desert sand dunes.

TD
Sales of rugged Japanese and U.S.-made four-wheel-drive vehicles have more than doubled since the U.S.-led allies liberated Kuwait in February from seven months of Iraqi occupation.

One showroom said it had sold 500 a month since June, up from fewer than 200 a month before Iraq invaded in August 1990.

Dealers insist that no Kuwaiti family wants to be without one - especially if it has gold-plated wheel rims as an optional extra.
Reuters
EUROPE
New EC Rule Means Cheaper Cars In Europe

European Community motorists should soon be able to buy cut-price cars abroad almost as easily as they do the family shopping.

Changes to Community laws approved last week by the European Commission legalized agencies that buy cars where they are cheapest in the Community and import  them for sale to people who would pay far more at home.

Until now EC rules banned car imports from one EC country to another by agents who were not part of the carmakers' official distribution networks.

The only way for consumers to get a cheap car in another EC country was to go there - and suffer travel, language and administrative problems.
The Commission ordered French carmaker  Peugeot SA to end restrictions on sales by its official
Benelux dealers to an independent French agent called  Ecosystem, which imported the cars.
Reuters
BIG THREE
Some Nameplates Keep On Selling In Bad Times

As sales of cars and trucks choke on falling consumer confidence, a few hot-selling nameplates are providing a ray of hope for the struggling auto industry.

Page 36 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Buyers have heartily endorsed General Motors Corp.'s newly redesigned Cadillac Seville and Eldorado, Pontiac Bonneville and Oldsmobile 88 Royale models. Ford Motor Co.'s Explorer sport/utility vehicle and Chrysler Corp.'s minivans are selling well despite the recession, which has sent sales of most other cars plunging.

Analysts do not expect th e strong-selling lines to translate into profits for the Big Three automakers until the  economy  rebounds. But vehicles such as Ford's Explorer have gone a long way to help stem losses. The Explorer has made up about 20 percent of Ford's truck sales this year, said Ford spokesman Joel Pitcoff.
Reuters
RF             AUTOMOTIVE NOTES COLUMN
CO             frdmo : Ford Motor Company
IN               i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles

NS             c11 : Plans/Strategy | c31 : Marketing | e1123 : Car Registrations/Vehicle Sales | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
RE             usmo : Missouri | namz : North America | usa : United States | usc : Midwest U.S.
IPD            EXPORT
PUB           St. Louis Post-Dispatch
AN             Document SLMO000020040626dnc9015rl












































Page 37 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Bleak news from the steel front line: The downturn is posing  problems for producers and politicians
BY        By CHARLES LEADBEATER
WC      1,419 words
PD       10 December 1991
SN       Financial Times
SC       FTFT
PG       London Page 19 Graph (Omitted). Photograph (Omitted).
LA        English
CY       (c) 1991 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
Fighting along the front line of the European steel industry's price war is becoming relentless and vicious. No prisoners are being taken as the industry endures a downturn which has cut a swathe through steel producers' profits.

Dispatches from the trenches are bleak. The commercial director of a small independent British steel producer says: 'Prices have reached suicidal levels. Even the best companies are losing money. There is no sign of an upturn.'

TD
The conflict is not confined to the UK. Throughout Europe producers are striking at one another's home markets. An executive at Ilva, the Italian state owned steel producer said: 'We want an orderly market - but if the French bid to supply Fiat with steel, we will undercut them to supply  Peugeot.' In Germany, despite bouyant demand fed by unification, prices have dropped to what some traders describe as 'Third World levels'.

The civil war is taking a heavy toll upon the industry's finances, after the brief bouyancy they enjoyed in the late 1980s. British Steel, widely regarded as Europe's financially strongest producer, last month reported its first half pre-tax profits had collapsed to just Pounds 19m from Pounds 307m last year. Analysts expect it could make a loss of up to Pounds 100m this year.

It is in good company. In Germany first half pre-tax profits at Krupp Stahl fell 69 per cent, while at Hoesch, which is in merger talks with Krupp, the fall was 65 per cent. France's Usinor Sacilor warned there were signs the second half of its financial year would be worse than the first when pre-tax profits fell 72 per cent.

Such a flood of bad news would alarm most industries. But by the standards of the steel industry this is not yet a crisis. To put it in perspective, in the US the top six integrated producers made a combined loss of about Dollars 1bn in the first six months of the year.

Nevertheless, the current downturn is posing troubling questions for producers and politicians alike; it raises strong doubts about the effectiveness of the industry's past restructuring.

Mr Jeremy Fletcher, a director of Beddows &Company, the specialist steel consultants, explained: 'The industry has been through a lengthy and painful period of restructuring. Yet from the peak to the trough of the cycle production volumes may still fall by 30 per cent and in addition prices may fall by at least 20 per cent. It is this combination which still hits the industry almost as hard as it used to a decade ago.'
EC governments have been struggling for years to sort out the industry. The  European Commission's
'manifest crisis' measures involving production quotas in the 10 years to 1988 were meant to manage an
orderly reduction in capacity. But critics argue that the industry's current instability shows the crisis
measures were little more than an officially approved cartel which has left Europe with too many high
cost producers.

The downturn has brought to an end the uneasy truce that prevailed in the 1980s between the public and private sectors. Mr Alan Cox, chief executive of ASW, the British steel group, argues that public sector

Page 38 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
companies are running their plants at well below capacity and also cutting their prices, which they are able to do because of state subsidy.

Private sector producers in Germany and the UK are considering legal action over the EC's recent decision to approve the deal under which Credit Lyonnais, the French state-owned bank, will pay FFr2.5bn for a 10 per cent stake in Usinor.

The private sector believes this downturn needs to be met with a resolute competition policy, although few believe this alone will be enough to sort out the industry. A senior official in the German steel industry says: 'Competition was never enough alone to rationalise the industry; it will need a political push as well.'

Companies must also take some of the blame, however, for not putting their houses in order. Surplus capacity was reduced substantially in the past decade from 80m tonnes to close to 20m tonnes last year.

Yet prices have remained highly volatile. This is because they are being set by the least efficient, mainly subsidised producers who need to keep their plants running at high capacity. They are trying to buy market share. More cuts in capacity led by the best managed companies such as British Steel will not make the industry as a whole more stable.
These doubts about the effectiveness of past restructuring are unlikely to disappear with stronger
economic growth. In the medium term several pressures will continue to destabilise the industry.

West European producers are overshadowed by the threat of cheap  imports from eastern Europe. With east European demand falling this year, about 40m tonnes of steel could be searching for a home at
very low prices.

In September a tonne of sections for the construction industry could be bought in Romania for the equivalent of DM 180 - less than one third of the western price.

Dr Ruprecht Vondran, president of the German Steel Federation, said: 'The eastern European market is out of joint. Prices and costs bear no relation to one another. Exchange rates distort the situation. Chaos reigns in the markets.'

The east Europeans will put the west under pressure particularly in long products for the construction industry, the eastern Europeans' strongest area. The flat products sector - rolled products mainly made for motor cars, washing machines and fridges - faces a different challenge. The single European market is likely to promote concentration among the steel industry's customers, shifting the balance of power in their favour.

In the US the top three automotive groups account for 80 per cent of car industry steel demand, compared with 40 per cent in Europe. Such a consolidation in Europe, combined with the growth of Japanese plants, will make steel producers more vulnerable to prices being set by a monopsony of buyers.

The other threat in the medium term could come from innovative mini-mill producers, who operate with low labour costs and electric arc furnaces rather than the cumbersome technology of traditional steel production. In the US mini-mills are eating into the market share of traditional integrated producers. The European producers have yet to face a challenge of this magnitude from mini-mills at home.

This combination of short and medium term pressures will force the industry into further changes. If a tougher competition policy from Brussels rules out resort to subsidy or cartels to keep the industry's structure intact, then there are only two other options - consolidation and disintegration.

The merits of international consolidation are obvious for a relatively capital intensive industry. According to Beddows &Co, four producers in the bulk chemical industry account for 80 per cent of output, the same as the oil industry. In contrast it takes 10 producers to make up 80 per cent of western Europe's steel output.

There are already piecemeal signs of consolidation. In Germany, Krupp and Hoesch, the steel and engineering companies, have set a deadline of mid-February by which they intend to reach basic agreement on a possible merger to create a group with a combined turnover of about DM 30bn.

Cross border deals are also starting to come onto the agenda, partly because German producers who account for a third of European output, are becoming more willing to talk to foreign producers. But the political obstacles are immense.



Page 39 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Private sector companies such as British Steel are unwilling to do deals with public sector groups such as Usinor Sacilor. Governments still jealously protect their national producers, a factor which helped to scupper merger talks between Arbed and Cockerill Sambre of Belgium.

The other route would be towards a disaggregation of the industry. A few large producers such as Thyssen in Germany and Usinor might continue to produce a wide range of products. But around these large producers a variety of smaller producers might flourish in niche markets. This move towards specialisation has already taken place in the German industry where Mannesmann for instance has become a specialist tube producer rather than an all round steel maker.

Logic may argue for radical solutions. But one of the European industry's most deeply ingrained characteristics is that it is run by stubborn people intent on preserving their own fiefdoms.
PUB     The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN       Document FTFT000020070429dnca01g7u

Search Summary

Text                                 ("european commission" or "EC commission") and Peugeot* and (distribution* or export* or import*) and eco*
Date                                04/11/1991 to 04/01/1992
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                19
Timestamp                      11 April 2019 4:37 PM


































Page 40 of 40 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
