




EU antitrust chief says close to decision on packaging cartel .................................................................................. 2
Focus Antitrust - 10 June ......................................................................................................................................... 4
Competition law: big fines for cartels........................................................................................................................ 6
The Morning Risk Report: Foreign Banks Fall Under U.S.-Russia Sanctions.......................................................... 7
ENERGY .................................................................................................................................................................. 9
Greek crisis: Finance ministers meeting ends with no deal - live updates ............................................................. 10

Europa-Antitrust:  Commission  fines  producers  and  distributors  EUR  115  865  000  for  operating  retail  food packaging cartels ................................................................................................................................................... 27
(AE) COMPETITION: Commission rules on two cartels ........................................................................................ 34
EC fines ten groups for price collusion ................................................................................................................... 36
News in brief........................................................................................................................................................... 37
The Morning Risk Report: Foreign Banks Fall Under U.S.-Russia Sanctions........................................................ 41
Rex Features .......................................................................................................................................................... 44
Focus Antitrust - 1 July 2015 .................................................................................................................................. 48

Press Release: Huhtamaki: Huhtamäki Oyj's Interim Report January 1 - June 30, 2015: Profitability improvement continued ................................................................................................................................................................ 50
Huhtamaki to appeal fine for cartel pricing ............................................................................................................. 57
Huhtamäki Oyj's Interim Report January 1 - June 30, 2015: Profitability improvement continued......................... 58

































Page 1 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          EU antitrust chief says close to decision on packaging cartel
BY          By Foo Yun Chee
WC         297 words
PD          8 June 2015
ET          09:54 PM
SN          Reuters News
SC          LBA
LA           English
CY          Copyright 2015 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS, June 8 (Reuters) - Regulators are close to fining a group of 13 companies, which includes Finnish packager Huhtamaki, charged with taking part in a  cartel nearly three years ago, the European Union's antitrust chief said on Monday.

The European Commission sent charge sheets to 13 companies in September 2012, saying they may have fixed prices and allocated markets among themselves for up to eight years in breach of European Union rules.

TD
The EU competition watchdog did not name the companies which make plastic trays for  packaging
fresh food such as meat and poultry for  retail producers.
European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager told a European Parliamentary hearing in
Strasbourg that the case was crucial for the  food industry.

"On the food packaging, we are actually right now in terms of the final stages of investigating abuse of the market within food packaging because there seems to have been collusion in some European markets," she said.

Huhtamaki said in its 2014 annual report the Commission's charges concerned businesses in south-west Europe, north-west Europe and France between 2000 to 2008.

It said the annual net sales of the affected businesses, most of which it has either closed down or sold off in 2006 and 2010, totaled 40 to 50 million euros ($56.43 million).
Three Italian companies, two French, two German and a British firm were also among those charged in
2012, a person familiar with the matter told Reuters, declining to provide details.

The Commission can fine companies up to 10 percent of their global revenue for violating EU rules. ($1 = 0.8861 euros) (Reporting by Foo Yun Chee. Editing by Jane Merriman)

RF          Released: 2015-6-8T20:54:40.000Z
CO          euruno : The European Union

NS          c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ginda : Independent Advisory Bodies | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcrim : Crime/Courts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE          eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe
IPD         Business
IPC         SERVICE:ABN
PUB        Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC


Page 2 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
AN          Document LBA0000020150608eb6800kdg






































































Page 3 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      Focus Antitrust - 10 June
BY      Paul Stone
WC     681 words
PD      12 June 2015
SN      Mondaq Business Briefing
SC      BBPUB
LA       English
CY      (c) 2015 Mondaq Ltd

LP
In The News
CMA warns estate and lettings agents not to break competition law

TD
The CMA has sent out letters to a number of estate and lettings agents warning that they may be at risk of breaking competition law. This follows the recent case where the CMA  fined an association of estate and lettings agents, three of its members and a newspaper publisher over £735,000 for agreeing to restrict the advertising of fees or discounts in a local newspaper. In light of this case, the CMA has sent warning letters to a number of estate and lettings agents that it has reasonable grounds for suspecting have been involved in anti-competitive agreements to restrict the advertising of fees. Separately, the CMA has received complaints that other associations of estate agents and local newspapers may be engaging in similar practices, and is considering whether to take further action. Click here.
BT/EE merger fast-tracked to phase 2 investigation by CMA

The CMA has referred BT Group plc's anticipated acquisition of EE Limited for an in-depth phase 2 investigation under the fast track procedure. The CMA has found that the transaction meets the test for reference in that it gives rise to a realistic prospect of a substantial lessening of competition in relation to the supply of wholesale access and call origination services to mobile virtual network operators and fibre mobile backhaul services to mobile network operators in the UK. It has therefore decided that it is appropriate to proceed with a fast track reference of the merger to phase 2. Click here.
EU Mergers
The European Commission has cleared the acquisition of certain INEOS chlorovinyls businesses by ICIG and approved ICIG as buyer of divested assets linked to approval of the INEOS / Solvay joint venture.  Click here.
Articles 101 and 102

The European Commission has published Best Practices on the disclosure of information in data rooms in proceedings under Articles 101 and 102 and under the EU Merger Regulation. The purpose of the Data Room Best Practices is to provide practical guidance on the use of data rooms to disclose business secrets and other confidential information obtained during antitrust and merger proceedings. Click here.

The European Commission has sent a Statement of Objections to Riberebro alleging participation in the canned mushrooms cartel.  The Commission's investigation started with unannounced inspections in February 2012. In June 2014, the Commission adopted a settlement decision against three companies that admitted their involvement in the  cartel - Bonduelle, Lutèce and Prochamp. The total fines imposed were €32 million. The investigation concerning Riberebro continued under the standard cartel
procedure.  Click here.
UK CMA

Page 4 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The CMA has referred the merger of Bournemouth Water with South West Water for an in-depth phase 2 investigation.  Click here.

The CMA has opened a consultation on the undertakings offered by Greene King to address competition concerns relating to its purchase of the Spirit Pub Company. Click here.

The CMA has cleared the completed acquisition by Pork Farms Caspian of the chilled savoury pastry business of Kerry Foods. This confirms the provisional findings issued in April. Click here.

The CMA has provisionally cleared the completed acquisition by Sonoco Products Company of Weidenhammer Packaging  Group. The CMA believes that customers of composite cans for  food products will be protected from the risk of the merged company raising prices, or reducing quality, through their ability to switch to other suppliers or to alternative forms of  packaging.  Click here.

The CMA is consulting on proposed undertakings in lieu of a reference in relation to GTCR's acquisition of Gorkana Group. Click here.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.
Mr Paul Stone
Charles Russell Speechlys LLP
5 Fleet Place London EC4M 7RD UK
Tel: 2072035000
Fax: 2072030200
E-mail: daryl.atkinson@crsblaw.com URL: www.charlesrussellspeechlys.com Click Here for related articles
(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2015 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 -  http://www.mondaq.com
CO      btcom : BT Group PLC

IN        i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | i8150203 : Private Equity | i475 : Printing/Publishing | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | imed : Media/Entertainment | ipubl : Publishing | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
NS      ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE      uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD     orporate/Commercial Law
PUB    Mondaq Limited
AN      Document BBPUB00020150612eb6c000mr











Page 5 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD     Competition law: big fines for cartels. WC    89 words
PD     20 June 2015
SN     Handelsblatt Wirtschafts- und Finanzzeitung
SC     HWFIN
PG     16
LA      English
CY     (c) 2015 Elsevier Engineering Information

LP
The European Commission says eight producers and two distributors have colluded over prices and allocated customers between themselves in the food packaging sector. The  cartel included Silver Plastics which has to pay EUR 21.1 M of the total fine of EUR 115.865 M. The companies produce PS foam trays and PP trays. Original Source: Handelsblatt,  http://www.handelsblatt.com/, Copyright Verlagsgruppe Handelsblatt GmbH & Co KG 2015.
Handelsblatt Wirtschafts- und Finanzzeitung No. 120

TD
Website:  http://www.handelsblatt.com

IN       i483 : Plastics Products | iindstrls : Industrial Goods

NS     c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c314 : Pricing | nabst : Abstracts | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE     gfr : Germany | dach : DACH Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD    308 Fabricated Plastics Products
PUB   Elsevier Science Ltd.
AN     Document HWFIN00020150630eb6k00002





























Page 6 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      The Morning  Risk Report: Foreign Banks Fall Under U.S.-Russia Sanctions
BY      By Joel Schectman
WC     1,563 words
PD      24 June 2015
ET       01:21 PM
SN      Dow Jones Institutional News
SC      DJDN
LA       English
CY      Copyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LP
A new sanctions rule allows President Barack Obama to punish banks outside the U.S. if they help finance blacklisted Russian companies or individuals. The potential expansion of sanctions to foreign banks, targeted because of their Russia business, represents a significant new corporate risk that few have begun to consider.

TD
The provision to penalize foreign banks because of their relationship to blacklisted Russians--a measure sometimes called secondary sanctions--was included in the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, but only took effect last week. The provision authorizes the president to use sanctions against a foreign bank if it "knowingly facilitated a significant financial transaction on behalf of any Russian person included on
the list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons," referring to specially designated nationals, who have been blacklisted from U.S. trade by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control. Those penalties could include restrictions on any correspondent accounts in the U.S. What
counts as "[significant] is left to interpretation," said Meredith Rathbone, a sanctions specialist at Steptoe
& Johnson LLP. The fuzziness of that threshold could have a "chilling effect" on foreign banks that have
relationships with Russia, she said. Previously, a non-U.S. bank would not have to worry about getting
targeted by OFAC because of its Russia transactions, as long as it didn't move funds to blacklisted
parties through the U.S., Ms. Rathbone said.

"Many non-U.S. banks are already deciding to stay away from SDNs," she said. "But those that would engage with SDNs would now have an additional disincentive."
Readers can subscribe to The Morning Risk Report here:  http://on.wsj.com/MorningRiskReportSignup
Follow us on Twitter at @WSJRisk.
EXCLUSIVE ON RISK AND COMPLIANCE JOURNAL

OECD criticizes Israel over bribery. Israel has not prosecuted a single foreign bribery case in the seven years since its law criminalizing it came into effect, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Wednesday in a report.

SEC drops probe of Gold Fields . South African miner Gold Fields Ltd. said the Securities and Exchange Commission's foreign bribery unit told the company it closed an investigation without filing charges. Gold Fields said in a statement that the SEC's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act unit told the miner it completed its probe into a $210 million payment to a black economic empowerment fund related to Gold Fields' efforts to get a license to mine in South Deep, one of the world's largest gold deposits.
COMPLIANCE

Judge blocks mega food merger. A federal judge on Tuesday issued a preliminary injunction blocking Sysco Corp.'s planned acquisition of rival  food distributor US Foods Inc., a ruling that could kill a deal to combine the nation's two largest  food distributors, the WSJ reports. The decision by U.S. District Judge Amit Mehta in Washington handed a victory to the Federal Trade Commission, which filed a lawsuit in February challenging the transaction on antitrust grounds.



Page 7 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
U.K. rules delay bank bonus payments. Senior U.K. bankers will have to wait seven years to collect their annual bonus payments in full under tough new rules released Tuesday, the WSJ report. Three years must pass from the time of an award to receive any pay out, and top bank executives will have a 10-year wait to be sure the bonus won't be clawed back. Risk managers will wait five years to receive any performance awards in full, while traders and other "risk takers" will have at least a three-year wait.

Julius Baer sets aside money for settlement . Julius Baer Group AG said it is setting aside $350 million to settle a U.S. Justice Department investigation of the Swiss bank's alleged role in helping Americans evade taxes, indicating that a resolution of the long-standing probe may be at hand, the WSJ reports.

EU fines packaging companies. The European Commission said on Wednesday it had found eight manufacturers and two distributors of retail food packaging trays guilty of participating in cartels and set fines of a total of 115.9 million euros ($129.90 million), Reuters reports. The Commission said it had discovered five separate cartels of polystyrene foam polypropylene rigid trays for products such as cheese, meat, fish or cake and operating in regions of Europe for between one and almost eight years.

EU alleges battery market collusion. European Union antitrust regulators charged five companies on Wednesday for taking part in a car battery recycling cartel in Belgium, France, Germany and the Netherlands from 2009 to 2012, Reuters reports. The European Commission, which governs competition issues, said it had concerns that the recycling companies participated in a  cartel aimed at fixing the purchase price for scrap lead-acid batteries, from which lead is extracted.

SEC freezes assets of China trader. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission obtained a court order Tuesday to freeze the assets of a China-based trader for suspicious activity ahead of a $9 billion buyout offer for a U.S.-listed Chinese Internet company last week, the WSJ reports. Haijian Luo, chief executive of a Chinese online company 4399 Co., bought approximately $700,000 of out-of-the-money call options, or bets that the stock price of a company will go up, before last week's announcement of a buyout offer for Qihoo 360 Technology, according to a news release from the SEC. A person at Mr. Luo's company said she didn't know how to reach him.

U.K. launches probe of tech company. The Financial Conduct Authority has launched an investigation into Quindell PLC's public statements regarding its financial accounts, Reuters reports. The insurance and personal injury claims processor has had a tumultuous year during which it has wrestled with questions over its revenue model and profit quality and seen its chairman quit over a stock deal.

Australia to probe sports corruption. An Australian parliamentary inquiry will investigate foreign bribery in the wake of allegations of corruption by FIFA officials during the World Cup bidding process, The Herald Sun reports. A parliamentary committee will look at possible improvements to federal laws and Australia's obligations under international conventions.

Many China fugitives flee to U.S. China issued global arrest warrants for 100 fugitives in April. Most of them, it turns out, are believed to be corrupt officials hiding out in the U.S. or Canada, NPR reports. Huang Feng, a criminal law expert at Beijing Normal University, said they pick the U.S. for its standard of living and its mature legal system. They know that the U.S. and China have no extradition treaty, and that the U.S. is wary of sending fugitives back to China, where they may be denied legal due process.
GOVERNANCE

WSJ surveys CEO pay. A substantial part of American CEOs' pay is now tied to performance. But that doesn't mean their compensation follows their results in lockstep. The Wall Street Journal's annual pay survey looked at compensation for 300 CEOs and the returns the chiefs delivered to their shareholders. Broadly speaking, CEOs did well when their investors did. All 10 of the CEOs posting the best shareholder returns were paid more than they had been a year earlier, and all but two of the 10 worst performers got pay cuts. The results come as pressure from investors has prompted companies to tie a greater percentage of their top executives' pay to measurable results.

Private equity investors warn on ESG. Private equity investors have warned that managers may not be focusing enough on environmental, social and governance issues as a competitive market means that deals are being done more quickly, Private Equity News reports. High-profile European private equity investors speaking at the Private Equity International Responsible Investment Forum 2015 in London on Tuesday said that assessing risks on ESG was becoming less important to private equity fund managers. This is potentially putting at risk investors seeking to co-invest alongside those firms.
RISK

Risk managers command higher pay. Risk managers have an increasingly prominent and challenging remit, but the rewards come in the form of increasingly lucrative compensation packages, Financial News reports. That is according to headhunters, who say there has been a clear rise in base salaries and
Page 8 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
bonuses for risk roles in the past 12 months as demand for new hires has combined with a dearth of candidates with the required skills.
OPERATIONS

Driver shortages affect trucking. The shortage of drivers is having ripple effects throughout the transportation industry, squeezing carriers with smaller truck fleets and boosting the use of rail freight, the WSJ reports. As freight volume gained momentum, "the trucking industry edged even closer to 100% utilization," said a State of Logistics report released Tuesday by the Council of Supply Chain
Management Professionals. Industry indicators for hauling capacity indicate "that truck capacity has grown extremely tight."
STRATEGY

Alibaba falters in U.S. expansion . Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.'s decision to sell its U.S. online shopping site to a U.S. rival highlights the challenges facing the Chinese electronic-commerce company in mature Western markets dominated by competitors such as Amazon.com Inc. and eBay Inc., the WSJ reports.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
June 24, 2015 07:21 ET (11:21 GMT)
IN        i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services

NS      gesanc : International Sanctions | gbrib : Bribery | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c17 : Corporate Funding | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcorrp : Corruption | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gdip : International Relations | gfinc : Financial Crime | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE      russ : Russia | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | namz : North America | ussrz : CIS Countries
PUB    Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN      Document DJDN000020150624eb6o0012u

ENERGY
dpa Insight EU Issue Monitor, 24 June 2015, 5171 words, (English)
In this edition:# ENERGY UNIONBundesminister Gabriel und Kommissions-Vizepräsident
Sefcovic diskutieren über die Europäische EnergieunionVice-President Šefčovič on
Energy Union Tour to Germany
Document DPAEUM0020150625eb6o00002






















Page 9 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE            Business
HD           Greek crisis: Finance ministers meeting ends with no deal - live updates
BY            Graeme Wearden
WC           8,168 words
PD            25 June 2015
ET            06:32 PM
SN            The Guardian
SC            GRDN
LA            English
CY            © Copyright 2015. The Guardian. All rights reserved.

LP
Eurozone finance ministers have failed to break the long-running deadlock between Greece and its creditorsLatest: No deal todayDonald Tusk is optimisticGreeks fear impact of tax risesPhotos: Finance ministers meet againCreditors Greek proposal has leakedIntroduction: Crucial meetings today
block-time published-time 4.23pm BST

TD
Greece’s PM is pushing for eurozone leaders to hold a summit this evening, reports the FT’s Peter
Spiegel.

enltrStill talk of a  #eurozone leaders summit tonite.  @atsipras wants it discussed at heads, official tells me. #Greece

— Peter Spiegel (@SpiegelPeter)  June 25, 2015Which is a good excuse to drop these pictures in, from today’s summit meeting:
Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi chats with Alexis Tsipras and Angela Merkel. Photograph: Geert
Vanden Wijngaert/AP block-time published-time 4.14pm BST

enltr #Eurogroup cancelled in order to assess what points of latest Greek proposal can be included in the creditors' offer (EU sources)  #Greece
— Jorge Valero (@europressos)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 4.13pm BST Reuters has now published the full quotes from Yanis Varoufakis as he left the eurogroup. And he reveals that some euro finance ministers refused to support the latest offer from the
IMF/ECB/EC today ( which included  some concessions to Athens )
Varoufakis said:

“Interestingly, several colleagues disagreed and criticised not only our text but also the text of the institutions.”
“We shall continue our deliberations, the institutions are going to look again at the two documents -
our documents and their own, there will be discussions with the Greek government, and we’ll continue
until we find a solution”

enltrMinister  @yanisvaroufakis making doorstep statement on way to EU summit said Eurogroup ministers disagreed over the document of institutions
— Dimitris Yannopoulos (@DimitrisY)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 4.02pm BST It’s the same old, same old story.


Page 10 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Pierre Moscovici, the EU commissioner, has said that there is still no agreement on the pension reforms and VAT rate changes that Greece should implement.

* EU’S MOSCOVICI SAYS VAT, PENSIONS REMAIN STICKING POINTS IN DISCUSSIONS WITH GREECE
* EU’S MOSCOVICI SAYS STILL DISCUSSING HOW TO REACH GREECE’S FISCAL TARGETS
block-time published-time 3.52pm BST

Varoufakis: Talks will continue Greece’s finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, is telling the press pack that discussions will continue, and hinted that there was much disagreement at today’s meeting.

* GREEK FINANCE MINISTER SAYS THERE WAS A LOT OF DISCUSSIONS OF TWO DOCUMENTS, LOTS OF COLLEAGUES CRITICIZED OUR TEXT AND THAT OF CREDITORS

* GREEK FINANCE MINISTER SAYS WE WILL CONTINUE DISCUSSIONS UNTIL WE FIND A SOLUTION
enltrGrexit  @yanisvaroufakis no agreement. More discussions. Wouldn't say when
— Ian Traynor (@traynorbrussels)  June 25, 2015block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.32pm BST
block-time published-time 3.46pm BST
Jeroen Dijsselbloem, Eurogroup president, has told reporters in Brussels that the door is still open for
Greece to accept the proposals tabled by its creditors today (  see earlier ).
block-time published-time 3.43pm BST

Eurozone finance ministers have agreed to meet again in two days time - they must be sick of the sight of each other.
enltrI've also confirmed that  #eurogroup will reconvene on #Greece on Saturday.  #NeverEndingStory
— Peter Spiegel (@SpiegelPeter)  June 25, 2015enltr #Eurogroup is over now. No conclusion on
#Greece. Another Eurogroup (the 5th in 10 days) on Saturday morning
— María Tejero Martín (@Maria_Tejero)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 3.39pm BST EUROGROUP ENDS WITH NO DEAL It’s official: The meeting of eurozone finance ministers has
ended without a deal (that’s via Finland’s fast-tweeting finance minister)
enltrThat's it for today. Institutions and Greece to continue work.  #Eurogroup back later, but not today.
— Alexander Stubb (@alexstubb)  June 25, 2015 So what happens next? We could be looking at another eurogroup meeting on Saturday morning.... enltrNext  #Eurogroup for #Greece on Saturday morning acc to  #EU source
— EfiKoutsokosta (@Efkouts)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 3.35pm BST

Several Brussels reporters are reporting that  the “indefinitely suspended” Eurogroup meeting resumed a few minutes ago, and then broke up again. Classic .
enltrThe  #eurogroup will soon be over.
— Jennifer Rankin (@JenniferMerode)  June 25, 2015enltrI'm hearing  #eurogroup is now finished.
#Greece
— Peter Spiegel (@SpiegelPeter)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 3.31pm BST

Our Europe editor, Ian Traynor, reports that leaders are very keen to avoid another emergency summit on Greece (they’ve already held one this week, back on Monday).
But that relies on finance ministers reaching a deal on their own.

enltr #grexit#euco msg from leaders going in is we don't want another eurozone summit. let the eurogroup sort it. then again...

Page 11 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
— Ian Traynor (@traynorbrussels)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 3.29pm BST
Ireland’s Enda Kenny predicts a long weekend ahead of us:

enltrIrish PM Kenny: Difficult to reach a  #Greece deal today. I can see the Greek negotiations going into the weekend.
— Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner)  June 25, 2015block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.29pm
BST
block-time published-time 3.28pm BST

Once inside the Commission, Alexis Tsipras has held some intense-looking chats with Martin Schulz, president of the European Parliament....
Photograph: EbS ...and Italian prime minister Matteo Renzi. Photograph: Thomson Reuters block-time published-time 3.16pm BST
Greek PM predicts a compromise Alexis Tsipras Photograph: EbS Alexis Tsipras actually teased a reporter as he arrived in Brussels for tonight’s Summit.

Asked “What’s going on”, he replied “What’s going on? You don’t know?” (“No, we don’t”, the reporter shot back).
The Greek PM then predicted a deal, saying:
European history is full of disagreements, negotiations, and then compromises.

So after the comprehensive Greek proposals, I am confident that we will reach a compromise that will help the eurozone and Greece to overcome the crisis.
Do you have a basis for agreement?
Yes, it is a basis, a good basis, Tsipras replies.
He declined to be drawn on Britain’s In-Out referendum.

enltrProps to BBC's James Landsdale shouting at Tsipras about Cameron's referendum. "Do you care about Cameron's reforms..." *SILENCE*
— Mehreen (@MehreenKhn)  June 25, 2015block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.17pm BST
block-time published-time 3.03pm BST

Greece’s prime minister Alexis Tsipras tells reporters that he’s confident a deal will be reached, as he arrives at the European Council Summit.
After all, arguments and compromises are what Europe’s all about.

enltrGoing into EU summit  @atsipras says he is confident that an agreement can be found. Europe is about "disagremeents & comprimises"  #Greece
— Nick Malkoutzis (@NickMalkoutzis)  June 25, 2015block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.04pm BST
block-time published-time 2.50pm BST

As finance ministers  scramble for the Eurogroup exits, Francois Hollande has arrived at the EU Summit.

Speaking in French, the president states twice that an Greek agreement is possible, and necessary. But it’s up to the negotiating teams to work it out.

enltrHollande and Merkel now both say 'we have to let the negotiators work' on Greece. Hands washed
— Danny Kemp (@dannyctkemp)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 2.45pm BST

Eurogroup 'indefinitely suspended' Eurozone ministers have told Greece to come back with a better set of proposals -- in the meantime, their meeting is ‘indefinitely suspended’

Page 12 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
enltr*EUROGROUP WAITS FOR GREECE TO COME BACK WITH BETTER PROPOSAL
*EUROGROUP HAS BEEN 'INDEFINITELY SUSPENDED:' EU OFFICIAL
— Mark Barton (@markbartontv)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 2.43pm BST NEWSFLASH: Eurozone finance minister have just taken a break from their Eurogroup meeting. And an EU official has told Bloomberg that there is no sign of an agreement, after around two hours
discussing the latest proposal from Greece’s creditors (  see earlier leak ) and Greece’s
counter-proposal.

enltr*NO EUROGROUP AGREEMENT IN SIGHT ON GREECE: EU OFFICIAL *EUROGROUP MEETING HAS BEEN INTERRUPTED: EU OFFICIAL
— Mark Barton (@markbartontv)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 2.36pm BST Angela Merkel does not appear to share  Donald Tusk’s optimism of a happy ending.
Arriving at the EU summit, she tells reporters that she has the impression that Greece has “gone backwards” on some issues” -- but in any event it’s up to finance ministers  at the Eurogroup meeting today to decide.
enltrOk. Now let's start these talks.  pic.twitter.com/sBLpRSgjlT
— HansNichols (@HansNichols) June 25, 2015block-time published-time 2.34pm BST
My colleague Sean Clarke has created a  really handy interactive, showing the main issues which
Greece and its creditors are still arguing over today ( it’s updated to reflect today’s proposals )
Guardian interactive Photograph: Guardian Related:  Greek debt crisis: What's on the table?
block-time published-time 2.27pm BST

Pedestrians walk in main streets of Thessaloniki. Photograph: Alexandros Michailidis/Demotix/Corbis The endless to-and-froing over Greece’s bailout programme has been dragging down spirits in a country that has already suffered years of austerity.

From Thessaloniki, my colleague Angelique Chrisafis reports: At Thessaloniki’s bustling market, along the narrow alleys of bargain clothes and some of the cheapest meat and vegetables in the city, the continuing uncertainty surrounding a bailout deal was weighing down those already struggling to get through the month.

Michalis Nastos, 54, who runs a clothing stall selling €10 jeans, €6 shirts and an array of cheap summer dresses, had been following the  finer details of the negotiation offers and was bracing himself for the impact of possible steep VAT rises and pension changes.

“The uncertainty of this whole process has a psychological effect – people worry about what’s going to happen, they don’t know how or when it’s going to end. We just know everyone is going to be
affected, particularly by any rise in VAT.”

Already his profits had fallen by more than 50% after years of crisis, unemployment and tax hikes. The market, which once served mostly low-income families, now increasingly attracts a wider range of customers from all over the city in search of the lowest prices.

Nastos said his main fear was the proposed rise in VAT — an indirect sales tax that would push prices up and indiscriminately affect all shoppers, most of whom are already struggling with the effects of previous tax hikes. “Of course I’m against VAT rises, it’s already very high, it will have a knock-on effect. It’s the little details that will really affect people. The price of bread would go up — that’s important because people in Greece still eat a lot of bread, so you could see the price of a
sesame-seed loaf rise from say 50 cents to 70 cents, that would really have an impact.  Packaging costs will rise, energy, basics like pasta. Low-income people won’t be able to afford to buy and more and more people won’t be able to make it.”

Raising the retirement age was another key issue in discussions in Brussels. One fifth of the Greek population is over 65 and, with the extended family serving as a social safety net, one in two Greek households currently rely on pensions to make ends meet. May have already seen pensions cut and about 45% of pensioners receive pensions below what is considered the poverty limit of €665 per month.

Page 13 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Natsos, who had worked in the market trade for 32 years, would likely have to wait another 11 years to retire. “The problem is the country just can’t cover its pensions obligations to this number of people,” he said. But he was more concerned about the long-term state of the economy.

“Greece definitely needs help, there has to be some kind of debt relief, the country won’t be able to make it otherwise.”

Michalis Hadji-Athanasiadis, 84, a former police officer who had retired aged 50, said his pension had shrunk from €1,600 a month to €1,000 a month, and his extra benefits had been cut. But his pension was still far higher than the shrinking salary of his 52-year-old daughter who was a high-school teacher and who, like her brother and his wife, still lived with their parents to make ends meet.
He said:

“People are hungry. For five months it seems there has been no progress and business is down everywhere, a lot of shops have closed. Income is down, with VAT going up everything you need to buy becomes so much more expensive.”

Near the market, one woman in her 50s, who said her main income came from selling black market Balkan cigarettes, described how customers used to buy five or six packets but were now only buying one or two. “It feels like life is over,” she said. “We can barely manage to feed ourselves.” Her adult children, who had lost their jobs as shop-assistants during the recession both lived with her.
She adds:

“It feels like they’re going after the little guy, all the high-income people got away with it and got their money out of the country.”
block-time published-time 2.21pm BST

Tsipras speaks with Greek president President Pavlopoulos. Over in Athens the government has announced that the Greek prime minister has just spoken by telephone to the country’s head of state Prokopis Pavlopoulos.

Helena Smith reports. “The prime minister Alexis Tsipras had telephone contact with the president of the republic Prokopis Pavlopoulos a little while ago. He informed the president about the negotiations which are underway,” the statement said.

Pavlopoulos, a veteran politician on the right before assuming the largely ceremonial role of president earlier this year, has said he will go to “the boundaries of my authorities” to ensure that Greece remains at the heart of Europe in the single currency.

“I know that my role, not least because of my election by the majority of the parliament who chose me, is to ensure the course of the country in Europe and the euro zone,” he said last week.

“And that in front of this aim there has to be a solid internal front of all democratic forces. Petty party views and friction can’t come before the achievement of such a goal.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.04pm BST
block-time published-time 2.21pm BST
enltrFull quote #Greecepic.twitter.com/9QaJ2t5DGc
— Derek Gatopoulos (@dgatopoulos)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 2.16pm BST

Austria’s chancellor, Werner Faymann, is also optimistic....although he warns that the crisis could run for several more days.
enltrAustria's Werner Faymann: I am hoping for a solution to Greece if not tonight than by Monday or
Tuesday at the latest
— Open Europe (@OpenEurope)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 2.02pm BST

Tusk: My hunch is Greek story can have a happy ending Donald Tusk Photograph: EbS Donald Tusk, head of the European Council, has arrived at today’s EU summit meeting - and predicted that the Greek crisis will not end in tragedy.
On Greece, he tells reporters that:

Page 14 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Work is underway, and for sure it will need still many hours.

The last hours have been really critical, but I have a good hunch that unlike in Sophocles’ tragedies, this Greek story will have a happy ending.

He adds that he’ll give the media more information tonight after leaders have met (they’ll be discussing the migration crisis and Britain’s plan for an EU referendum).
enltrEuropean Council pres Donald Tusk says  #Greece will need many hours, but has a hunch that
Greek story will have a happy ending.
— Jennifer Rankin (@JenniferMerode)  June 25, 2015block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.13pm BST
block-time published-time 1.42pm BST
More photos from inside the eurogroup, showing Yanis Varoufakis in quite decent spirits:

Chatting with Pierre Moscovici Photograph: Philippe Wojazer/Reuters No, I don’t know that gesture means. Photograph: Olivier Hoslet/EPA A quick handshake with old sparring partner Jeroen Dijsselbloem... Photograph: Olivier Hoslet/EPA And down to business - that’s Greece’s Euclid Tsakalotos in the foreground. Photograph: Olivier Hoslet/EPA block-time updated-timeUpdated at
2.23pm BST
block-time published-time 1.30pm BST

There is already speculation that ANOTHER meeting might be called over the weekend, which is bound to lift spirits in Brussels, Athens and beyond.
enltrBrussels chatter of possible 'very last chance' Eurogroup meeting on Saturday.

— Yannis Koutsomitis (@YanniKouts)  June 25, 2015enltrSigh, the next last chance meeting on the horizon..  https://t.co/uJXUs64YpW
— Jennifer Rankin (@JenniferMerode)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 1.27pm BST Here’s the seating plan for today’s meeting, via Finland’s finance minister.
enltrFor good old times sake, here is the seating order in the  #Eurogroup. Different from normal rotation.  pic.twitter.com/cAGGZvy4nD
— Alexander Stubb (@alexstubb)  June 25, 2015It’s interesting that Ireland’s finance minister, Michael
Noonan, is next to Yanis Varoufakis.

Noonan denied claims he’d “stabbed the Greek people in the back” this week by reportedly suggesting that capital controls might be needed.
block-time published-time 1.12pm BST

Photos: Inside the eurogroup The photographers in Brussels have surpassed themselves, with a selection of photos from inside today’s eurogroup meeting.

Everyone looks remarkably upbeat, given the importance of this meeting, and the dangerous consequences that could follow.

Squeeze! Italian Finance Minister Pier Carlo Padoan (L-R), Dutch Finance Minister and President of Eurogroup Jeroen Dijsselbloem, International Monetary Fund (IMF) managing director Christine Lagarde, Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan, and French Finance Minister Michel Sapin. Photograph: Olivier Hoslet/EPA “Where’s Christine gone”? Photograph: Olivier Hoslet/EPA Oh, there she is. All smiles, as Lagarde meets Yanis Varoufakis again. Photograph: Olivier Hoslet/EPA Photograph: Olivier Hoslet/EPA Top level talks: Jeroen Dijsselbloem, rear left, arriving earlier. Photograph: Virginia Mayo/AP block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.19pm BST
block-time published-time 1.02pm BST

Finland’s finance minister, Alex Stubb, has warned that there’s still a significant gap between the two sides....

enltrFINLAND'S STUBB: GREECE DOCUMENTS HAVE `PRETTY BIG' DIFFERENCESearlier reports said differences were 'not that big'

Page 15 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
— Steve Collins (@TradeDesk_Steve)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 12.57pm BST

Malta: We've received a document from Varoufakis.... Photograph: EbS Malta’s finance minister, Edward Scicluna, has just explained what’s happening right now in Brussels.

Arriving at the Eurogroup, he tells reporters that the latest Greek proposal is going to be compared with the 11-page of ideas drawn up by creditors, to see where the disagreements are..

“We’ve run out of comments, we’re also running out of patience, but we’ve received the document from [Greek finance minister Yanis] Varoufakis just over half an hour ago, so we just merged them before coming here.

We need to see what’s been deleted and what’s been added, Sciclina explains, so we can see if a deal is possible.
Are you edging closer to a deal?
Scicluna suggests that they are positive signs..

The fact we are talking from the same book.... that there’s a specific text, which the three institution have submitted, and there are additions and deletions from that document, well...

At least we’re talking from the same text. But there are disageements -- and honestly now I don’t know what they are.

Scicluna also refuses to speculate on whether this is the last chance of a deal, or what might happen next....
block-time published-time 12.44pm BST

enltr #EU 's Moscovici: Troika plan is solid, economically, socially. Says  #Greece solution is 'within reach.' (BBG)
— Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 12.39pm BST Several ministers and officials are slipping into the meeting without speaking, including ECB chief
Mario Draghi :
block-time published-time 12.38pm BST

Confused about the chances of a deal today? Join the club. Even Slovakia’s finance minister says the situation is up in the air.
enltrI honestly don't know what are the chances to reach a deal today
#Greece#eurozone#Eurogroup#ECB#IMF
— Peter Kažimír (@KazimirPeter)  June 25, 2015block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.38pm BST
block-time published-time 12.34pm BST

Dijsselbloem: No Greek agreement yet Jeroen Dijsselbloen, head of the eurogroup, has confirmed that a deal hasn’t yet been reached.
Arriving at today’s meeting, he says:

The only thing we have presented to the eurogroup is what the institutions have drawn up. We don’t have a Greek agreement on that...
enltrDijsselbloem confirms no deal with the Greeks, will have to wait and see what their ideas are.
— Jennifer Rankin (@JenniferMerode)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 12.29pm BST

Oh dear. Germany’s finance minister is not happy. We have not made progress, Wolfgang Schäuble tells reporters in Brussels, adding that Greece has moved “backwards”.
block-time published-time 12.27pm BST

Several experienced crisis watchers agree that  Greece’s lenders have given some ground in their latest proposals, while sticking firm on other issues:


Page 16 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
enltrCreditors' proposal includes several concessions to  #Greece. Blame game not as easy now.
— Yannis Koutsomitis (@YanniKouts)  June 25, 2015enltrInstitutions agree on 13% VAT on basic
(and not unprocessed)  food, but not on hotels at 23% (vs  #Greece proposal at 13%). #ec#ecb#imf

— Manos Giakoumis (@ManosGiakoumis)  June 25, 2015enltrQuite a step institutions postpone by 2 years (end 2019) phasing out supplements for low income pensioners
#Greecehttps://t.co/3RUuTxtGDt
— Jorge Valero (@europressos)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 12.18pm BST Carsten Brzeski of ING reckons that the two sides are getting closer:
enltrAccording to this new compromise obtained by  @SpiegelPeter differences have become smaller once again. Debt relief looks like final red line
— Carsten Brzeski (@carstenbrzeski)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 12.16pm BST Creditors are also refusing to accept the Greek plan of raising the corporation tax rate from 26% to
29%. In their latest proposal, it would rise to 28%.

They are also keeping a firm red line through Athens plan for a one-off 12% tax on all corporate profits over €500,000.
But one other measure has survived, as the FT points out:
But the plan keeps Mr Tsipras’s plan to raise luxury tax on yachts from 10% per cent to 13%. block-time published-time 12.13pm BST
Now this is interesting too.... Greece’s creditors are offering that these VAT hikes could be “reviewed at the end of 2016”, if Athens has proved that it has raised more revenue through fighting tax evasion and better VAT collection.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.19pm BST
block-time published-time 12.10pm BST

This leaked proposal shows that creditors have given some ground on the VAT issue -- although they still want to raise a full 1% of GDP through various reforms.

They have accepted that Greece could maintain a 6% low rate for pharmaceuticals, books, and the theatre. In previous plans, this rate would have been abolished.

But, they are still insisting that the lower VAT rate on Greece’s islands is abolished. Alexis Tsipras’s junior coalition partner, ANEL, has already refused to accept such a move.

Creditors also want restaurants and hotels to face the full 23% VAT rate -- they have already warned that this would cost thousands of jobs.
enltrVAT @ 23% for hotels, restaurants & processed  food 13% for elect, basic  food 6% for pharma
Feasibility blueprint  pic.twitter.com/GMVccKk3e7
— wolf piccoli (@wolfpiccoli)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 12.00pm BST

LEAKED: The creditors' new Greek proposal The FT has just published  the document which Greece’s creditors have drawn up and submitted to the eurozone finance ministers ( nice one, Peter ).

At first glance, it looks pretty similar to  the infamous red-ink counter-proposal that the IMF drew up earlier this week. But there are some concessions on pensions.

enltrLeaked: Got my hands on 9-page  #Greece bailout plan sent to  #eurogroup earlier today. Copy posted here:  http://t.co/s06qInNIUB
— Peter Spiegel (@SpiegelPeter)  June 25, 2015The full 11-page document is online here. Peter Spiegel says:



Page 17 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Under the plan sent to finance ministers, Athens would ensure the retirement age is moved to 67 by
2022, significantly faster that Alexis Tsipras, the Greek prime minister, had sought. Originally, Athens
was pushing for 2036, but  Mr Tsipras’ compromise plan submitted on Monday moved that to 2025.

There is an important creditor concession in the pension reforms, too, though. Creditors have been trying to get rid of a “solidarity grant” programme that provides a top-up bonus to poorer pensioners, know by the Greek acronym EKAS, by 2017 at the latest. Athens had offered 2020. The new plan splits the difference and goes with December 2019.

The EKAS phase-out will start immediately, however, with the wealthiest 20 per cent of the recipients losing the benefit as soon as legislation is passed.

There are some other elements of the Greek plan that survived as well, including raising contributions pensioners must make towards healthcare from 4% to 6%.

Leaked: Greece bailout plan sent to eurogroupAnalysts are digesting the proposals right now....
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.01pm BST
block-time published-time 11.49am BST

No deal. It’s now clear that there isn’t an agreement between the two sides, despite this morning’s ultimatum.
The latest rumour is that both sides are going to submit their own proposals to the eurogroup enltr*GREECE SUBMITTED SEPARATE DOCUMENT AT EUROGROUP: GOVT OFFICIAL /
*GREEK OFFICIAL SAYS 2 DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED AT EUROGROUP

— Guy Johnson (@GuyJohnsonTV)  June 25, 2015enltrI can guess whose proposal will be turned down at the #Eurogroup#Greecehttps://t.co/xvj9PdcvlE
— Daphne Papadopoulou (@daphnenews)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 11.40am BST Yanis Varoufakis has arrived at the eurogroup meeting, carrying a sheet of paper along with his
rucksack:

Yanis Varoufakis Photograph: EbS Greece’s finance minister then heads inside without speaking to the assembled press.
Yanis Varoufakis Photograph: Thomson Reuters block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.47am BST
block-time published-time 11.33am BST

EU diplomat: Creditors are sending documents to eurogroup An EU diplomat is briefing that the creditors have sent a proposal up to the eurogroup which, they say, could potentially be the basis for an agreement ( Jennifer Rankin reports from Brussels )

enltrEU diplomat says creditors have sent documents to eurogroup that could form basis for agreement; insists no 'take it or leave it'.

— Jennifer Rankin (@JenniferMerode)  June 25, 2015 Important point: This doesn’t mean that Greece has also signed up to the plan. It actually confirms that this morning’s meeting did not deliver a breakthrough.

This distinction was missed by some traders, or computer algorithms, which just got rather overexcited:
enltr #Germany 's Dax jumps on latest  #Greece optimism.  pic.twitter.com/gT9glrLrLr
— Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner)  June 25, 2015enltrBUNDS  pic.twitter.com/KUt2mI19wp
— Joseph Weisenthal (@TheStalwart)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 11.26am BST There goes Alexis Tsipras, out of the building after this morning’s talks ended:
tlltrExit Tsipras @la_stampapic.twitter.com/pabdrDxGNg
— Marco Zatterin (@straneuropa)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 11.22am BST

Page 18 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Greek officials are also briefing that a compromise wasn’t reached at this morning’s meeting.

enltrGreek govt official says Greek proposals were realistic and Greek side has shown willingness for solution

— Mauro Ippolito (@MauroIppolito)  June 25, 2015enltrJust to be clear:  #Greece is not on board with proposals agreed unanimously by institutions for  #Eurogroup as basis for deal (sources)
— Jorge Valero (@europressos)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 11.18am BST It’s not looking good:
* EURO ZONE FINANCE MINISTERS WILL WORK WITH A PROPOSAL FROM THE CREDITOR INSTITUTIONS ON GREEK DEAL AS THERE IS NO AGREED DEAL WITH ATHENS - EURO ZONE OFFICIALS

enltr'Feasibility' means no agreement, documents now in prep by EC to see if it's feasible for eurogroup to talk. It's very difficult - source
— Bruno Waterfield (@BrunoBrussels)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 11.13am BST
enltrLagarde out. Light smile @la_stampa#Grexitpic.twitter.com/vbfJqdYhX3
— Marco Zatterin (@straneuropa)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 11.11am BST So, now what?
1) Has Alexis Tsipras yielded at today’s meeting with Draghi, Lagarde, Juncker, Dijsselbloem and
Redling, meaning an agreement can be passed onto the eurogroup?

2) Or has he refused, meaning that eurozone finance ministers will be presented with a proposal drawn up by the creditors?
There’s a lot of chatter around, but we should hear the truth soon enough..... block-time published-time 11.10am BST
enltrLagarde leaves the meeting too #Greecepic.twitter.com/w51dn3FHTo
— María Tejero Martín (@Maria_Tejero)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 11.06am BST
enltrOutriders waiting to escort PM Tsipras out of EU building after another round of debt talks over
#Greecepic.twitter.com/buyWukkiGQ
— Derek Gatopoulos (@dgatopoulos)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 11.03am BST
enltrBelgian police waits for tsipras @la_stampapic.twitter.com/p3KgsmQKjW
— Marco Zatterin (@straneuropa)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 11.01am BST

The meeting between Alexis Tsipras and the heads of Greece’ creditors appears to have broken up, with the main players heading out of the Commission.

enltrRegling and Dijsselbloem have left the @EU_Commission. Talks still fraught with no breakthrough pic.twitter.com/UCQy1H6ITu
— Simon Marks (@MarksSimon)  June 25, 2015enltrAll the principals leaving @EU_Commission
HQ. Motorcade w/  @J_Dijsselbloem & others just pulled out
— Peter Spiegel (@SpiegelPeter)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 10.58am BST
JP Morgan’s economist, David Mackie, agrees that Sunday is the next serious deadline, and fears
Greece could impose capital controls if it is missed.
enltrUseful summary of where the  #Greece talks might go from here by David Mackie at JP Morgan:
pic.twitter.com/cpKRkTL51s
— Ed Conway (@EdConwaySky)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 10.56am BST



Page 19 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Austria: Sunday is the final deadline Austria’s finance minister, Hans Jörg Schelling, has stated that
Sunday is the final deadline to reach an agreement with Greece.
That would then give enough time (just) for national parliaments to vote on the plan.
He hopes that a compromise can be reached by 4pm Brussels time, though, in time for the EU
leaders summit.

Schelling made the comments as he arrived at the Commission HQ for this afternoon’s eurogroup meeting
Hans Jorg Shelling Photograph: EbS Reuters snapped the key points:

* AUSTRIAN FINMIN SAYS: IF PAPER NOT AGREED BY GREECE, WILL HAVE TO LOOK AT ALTERNATIVES*

* AUSTRIAN FINMIN SAYS: IT’S GETTING HARDER BY THE MINUTE, SUNDAY IS FINAL DEADLINE*
* AUSTRIAN FINMIN SAYS: EUROGROUP TO LOOK AT NEW PROPOSALS ON GREECE*
* AUSTRIAN FINMIN SAYS: HOPE HAS BEEN TO REACH COMPROMISE BY 1400 GMT
enltr #Austria 's FinMin Schelling on  #Greece : Summit has give FinMins 4pm deadline. (BBG)

— Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner)  June 25, 2015The Eurogroup meeting was scheduled to start at 1pm Brussels time, or noon BST, but appears to be running late....
enltrAustria's Schelling says Eurogroup delayed by 30 mins
— Danny Kemp (@dannyctkemp)  June 25, 2015block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.00am BST
block-time published-time 10.46am BST
When all else fails, reach for a feasibility blueprint:

enltrAs 11am deadline passes, officials trying to put final touches on a "feasibility blueprint" to serve as basis for #eurogroup talks. #Greece
— Peter Spiegel (@SpiegelPeter)  June 25, 2015But how feasible can it be for Tsipras to cross his
‘red lines’ on pensions? This piece on MacroPolis explains how creditors rejected Greece’s plan to
raise contribution levels, and also demands that reforms start straight away.
enltrDeal now in front of Tsipras is lenders' proposals he rejected plus some of the ones he made on
Monday #Greecehttps://t.co/oH4a9oWBmJ
— Nick Malkoutzis (@NickMalkoutzis)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 10.35am BST Correction: The ECB has actually agreed to a request to maintain Greece’s emergency liquidity at the
current level, rather than raising it again, Reuters says.

That’s an encouraging sign; suggesting that Greek banks weren’t been hit by further cash withdrawals yesterday.
block-time published-time 10.16am BST

The European Central Bank has just approved today’s emergency liquidity request from the Greek banking sector, according to the newswires.

No word on how large the request is, but Greek officials are briefing that the ELA funding could be reviewed again tomorrow.
enltrGreek official says ECB stands ready to review ELA in next 24 hours
— Annmarie Hordern (@AnnmarieHordern)  June 25, 2015The ECB has already provided around
€89bn of ELA support, to allow Greek banks to handle the deposit flight while bailout negotiations
continue.

enltrOf course the ECB will review ELA within 24 hours. If negotiations collapse, no more basis for a cap expansion.

Page 20 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
— Frederik Ducrozet (@fwred)  June 25, 2015block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.31am BST
block-time published-time 10.10am BST

The clocks have struck 11am in Brussels, and everyone watches to see if Greece does produce  the new proposal demanded this morning....

enltrThe church bell in Brussels  #EU quarter just rings: It's 11. Time for  #Greece MP @atsipras to decide. Eurozone or #Grexit#Eurogroup
— Dirk Hoeren (@DirkHoeren) June 25, 2015As Hans Nichols puts it on Bloomberg TV, “until you see
Alexis Tsipras’s motorcade heading to the airport”, there’s still hope.
block-time published-time 10.04am BST
Reuters has also heard that Greece was told to produce a new proposal this morning, or else...

* CREDITOR INSTITUTIONS GAVE GREECE UNTIL 1100 CET TO PRODUCE A NEW, WORKABLE PROPOSAL - EURO ZONE OFFICIAL

* IF GREECE DOES NOT DELIVER, CREDITOR INSTITUTIONS WILL SUBMIT THEIR OWN PROPOSAL TO EURO ZONE FINANCE MINISTERS AT 1300 CET - EURO ZONE OFFICIAL
block-time published-time 9.53am BST
FT: Creditors issue bailout ultimatum to Greece The crunch moment may just have arrived. According to the Financial Times, creditors have given Alexis Tsipras until 11am Brussels time to
produce a ‘workable’ proposal. That’s in just under 10 minutes time!
If he doesn’t give some ground, Athens could then get a ‘take it or leave it’ offer.....

Over to the FT’s Peter Spiegel and Alex Barker :

Greece is down to its final hours for negotiations over its soon-to-expire bailout, with creditors giving Alexis Tsipras, the Greek prime minister, until 11am Brussels time to come up with a workable economic reform plan to release €7.2bn in desperately needed rescue aid.

According to two senior eurozone officials, if Mr Tsipras fails to reach an agreement — which people briefed on the talks say is now likely after  fruitless all-night talks — the creditors’ offer will be presented to eurozone finance ministers for a “take it or leave it” choice by Athens.

“The Greeks didn’t move at all,” said one senior official of the talks between Mr Tsipras and the heads of the European Commission, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank, which stretched into the early hours of Thursday before breaking up and resuming at 9am.

“The level of frustration is so high. I don’t see a deal,” the official added. “It’s looking pretty grim right now.
MNI’s Simon Marks also reports that tensions are very high.... enltrOfficials aware of ongoing talks eerily tight lipped right now!
— Simon Marks (@MarksSimon)  June 25, 2015enltrcreditors now have no choice but to do the 'take it or leave it' they always wanted to avoid #Greecehttps://t.co/WgaKAwCgpl
— Famke Krumbmüller (@FKrumbmuller)  June 25, 2015block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.09am
BST
block-time published-time 9.45am BST

Interesting... The Greek stock market has reversed its early 2% fall and is now UP almost 1%. Optimism in Athens?
block-time published-time 9.44am BST

Photograph: Marko Djurica/Reuters Greece’s labour minister Panos Skourtletis has also been making some incendiary comments this morning, reports Helena Smith.


Page 21 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Accusing Athens’ international creditors of deliberately attempting to corrode the Greek government’s authority, Skourletis told the ERT TV station that NOTHING could now be ruled out.
“Nothing can be excluded by anyone in relation to the success or not of an agreement.” Skourletis claims that creditors are deliberately exhausting Greece financially - “asphyxiating the
Greek economy” and rejecting any proposed reforms that would have a better effect socially, to
weaken the country at the negotiating table.

“They want to reduce the government’s authority,” he added insisting that no deal could be cut if the issue of the country’s monumental debt pile - at €320bn the highest in the EU - was not also addressed.

“There will be no deal without tackling debt and getting a growth program. No reduction in salaries or pensions”.
Government insiders are saying that “all scenarios” are now being considered. The leftist daily
Syntaktwn this morning said “rupture with Europe” was now also on the table.
One source said.
“We can’t hide that, yes, there is shock on our part. They are immovable, unyielding.”

It all suggests that, even if Tsipras does reach a deal, getting it through the Athens parliament will be a major challenge:
Related:  Greek debt crisis brings discord within Syriza as Tsipras hopes for leap of faith block-time published-time 9.22am BST
Negotiations could easily drag on into the weekend, warns Robin Bew of the Economist Intelligence
Unit.

enltr #Greece talks not looking so good. Still think they'll do some kind of deal but may run into weekend.
— Robin Bew (@RobinBew)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 9.21am BST Here’s our early dispatch from Brussels, by my colleague Jennifer Rankin:
Related:  Greece bailout crisis: talks enter last-minute search for a deal block-time published-time 9.18am BST
Greece’s Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras returning to the  EU Commission headquarters this morning. Photograph: Julien Warnand/EPA block-time published-time 9.16am BST
enltrSYRIZA spokesman Fylis on Skai TV, doesn't sound like a man who expects Tsipras to return to
Athens without some kind of deal  #Greece
— Nick Malkoutzis (@NickMalkoutzis)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 9.12am BST

Syriza MP: We won't be humiliated People walk along a street, with a statue of Godess Athena seen in the background, in Athens this morning. Photograph: Marko Djurica/Reuters More fighting talks from Syriza MPs this morning.
Alexis Mitropoulos says:
“We are being confronted with a  cartel of lenders....

“The message that the government has to send is that we are a proud people. We are not going to accept being humiliated,”

Speaking on STAR TV, Mitropoulos adding that the EU and IMF had to respect the “democratic choice” of the Greek people.

State-run TV station ERT is reporting that international lenders are now pushing for €2.3bn in extra measures on top of the €8bn Athens has already agreed to.


Page 22 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
“They want 1 % of GDP in Value added tax and are insisting that 23 percent be slapped on restaurants.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.12am BST
block-time published-time 9.06am BST A striking front page from Greece:
enltrToday's  @TOPONTIKI frontpage: Shameful  #Europe : committed to the "lethal prescription" insists on executing #Greecepic.twitter.com/5iADe8xUb1

— spyros gkelis (@northaura)  June 25, 2015The front-page headline of another paper, the left-leaning  Syntaktwn newspaper, is also very forceful, Helena reports:

“Up to here and enough is enough!” it declared. “The prime minister rejected the far fetching demands of the lenders.”
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.58am BST
block-time published-time 9.00am BST
Over in Athens, politicians, the media and commentariat all concur that D-Day has come.

Our correspondent Helena Smith reports. Defiance and dismay are the name of the game in Athens this morning. Almost everyone agrees that both sides will have to do what has not been done in five months to date: make crunch decisions that may well change the course of tiny Greece’s history.

“These moments are something more than critical,” the news portal,  newsit.gr, wrote with a touch of understatement. “White smoke” it said had still not appeared despite negotiations being drawn out into the small hours.

A gap of around €600m appears to be the source of differences, although Greek officials worry that with the International Monetary Fund “taking such a tough stance” that figure could rise to €1bn in extra measures. Athens’ leftist-led government says it cannot add that to the €8bn euro in savings it has already offered.

Leading officials in prime minister Alexis Tsipras’ radical left Syriza party repeated accusations this morning that by pushing Greece to the place where it has now pushed it, it had become quite clear that creditors had another agenda: regime change in Athens.

The phones have been ringing off the hook between Brussels and Athens with Tsipras, conferring with ministers in the Greek capital – not least the labour minister Panos Skourletis.

“The hardline faction (among lenders) does not want a an agreement, but rupture, the humiliation of Greece and the fall of the Tsipras government. It is not going to pass,” Syriza’s leading MEP, Dimitris Papadimoulis, wrote on his twitter account.
elltr? s?????p??????? f????a t?? da?e?st?? de? ???e? s?µf???a,a??? ????, tape???s? t??
????da? ? pt?s? t?? ??ß????s?? ?s?p?a.?e? ?a t??? pe??se?!
— Dim. Papadimoulis (@papadimoulis)  June 25, 2015Creditors had, he railed, lost touch with reality. “They refuse to tax e-gaming but want to add 23% VAT on milk. Are they doing it for … growth or out
of interest?” he wrote in another tweet.
elltr?? da?e?st?? a?????ta? t?? f???????s? t?? ??e?t??????? t?????, a??? ?????? 23% F?? st?
???a. ?? ?????? ??a t??... a??pt??? ? ??a s?µf????ta;
— Dim. Papadimoulis (@papadimoulis)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 8.54am BST

Carsten Brzeski, ING’s chief economist, says people are “getting exhausted” with the endless routine of meetings and deadlines around the Greek crisis.
It’s very hard to tell fact from fiction, he told Bloomberg TV this morning.

The fact that Tsipras, Lagarde, Draghi and Juncker met until midnight, and technical staff resumed work early this morning, shows there is still political will for a deal.
But still:
Page 23 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
“If anything, the chances that these negotiations will fail have increased over the last 24 hours.”
block-time published-time 8.54am BST

The biggest fallers on the Athens stock market in early trading, Photograph: Thomson Reuters block-time published-time 8.39am BST

Athens stock market falls The Greek stock market has just opened....and shares are, unsurprisingly, falling fast.
Bank shares have dropped by 5%, helping to drag the main ATG index down by almost 2%. block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.39am BST
block-time published-time 8.33am BST
Europe’s stock markets have fallen a little in early trading, extending yesterday’s losses. Connor Campbell, financial analyst at Spreadex, says:
The markets are slightly more tentative this morning as another Greece dominant day looms...

An unhappy IMF on one side, which wants stronger pension reforms instead of a reliance on raised taxes, and an angry Greek government on the other means Tsipras, and Greece is general, is caught between the proverbial rock and a hard place as judgement day (i.e. a whopping €1.6bn payment to the Washington-based institution) grows ever closer.
block-time published-time 8.27am BST

Greece and its creditors now have less than four hours to reach some agreement, before Eurozone finance ministers resume their own meeting (which ended so early yesterday)
Photograph: Bloomberg TV block-time published-time 8.21am BST
Over in Brussels, MNI reporter Simon Marks has spotted Alexis Tsipras arriving back at the  European
Commission for more talks with the IMF, ECB and EC:
enltrAnd the main man-  @tsipras_eu has entered the ring.  pic.twitter.com/v8LwofhiKx
— Simon Marks (@MarksSimon)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 8.14am BST Analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland reckon a deal probably won’t be reached today:
enltrEU sources have been reported as saying that logistically Sat is deadline for negotiations if  #IMF
payment on Jun30th is to be made on time.

— Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner)  June 25, 2015enltrRBS on  #Greece negotiations: Our baseline (50%) continues to be that there will be an agreement before Tuesday but not likely today.

— Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner)  June 25, 2015enltrRBS: We certainly cannot rule out that a Greek deal only follows after missed IMF payment, change in Greek govt composition or cap controls.
— Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner)  June 25, 2015block-time published-time 8.06am BST Greek government: we're being blackmailed The Greek parliament. Photograph: Yannis
Behrakis/Reuters A senior official of Greece’s ruling Syriza party has claimed that creditors are trying
to “blackmail” the country.
Nikos Filis, the ruling Syriza party’s parliamentary spokesman, told Mega TV that:

“The lenders’ demand to bring annihilating measures back to the table shows that the blackmail against Greece is reaching a climax.”
Filis added that Greece is adamant that lenders must embrace the issue of debt relief:
“There cannot be a deal without a substantial reference and specific steps on the issue of debt.” (Thanks to Reuters for the quotes)


Page 24 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.45am BST
block-time published-time 7.58am BST
Europe’s indefatigably optimistic economics affairs commissioner, Pierre Moscovoci, has tweeted that
“Where there is a will, there is a way”.
frltrLà où il y a une volonté, il y a un chemin

— Pierre Moscovici (@pierremoscovici)  June 25, 2015That phrase was used by Angela Merkel earlier this month; wonder if she still agrees....
block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.15am BST
block-time published-time 7.51am BST

Introduction: Here we go again (again) Last night, Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis and chief economics spokesman Euclid Tsakalotos left the Eurozone finance minister’s emergency meeting with no deal in sight. Photograph: Philippe Wojazer/Reuters Good morning.

Last ditch talks. Going to the wire. Groundhog Day. Pick your cliché, because it’s going to be another one of those moments.

Greece and its creditors are hunkering down for another attempt to reach an agreement over its bailout package, which expires in just six days.
Technical teams are already at their desks working away.

And soon, Greece’s prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, will meet with IMF managing director Christine Lagarde, ECB president Mario Draghi, and  European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker. Those talks are expected to start at 9am Brussels time, or 8am BST.

They can’t have had much sleep -- emergency talks between the quartet lasted until after midnight. Juncker still had enough energy to wave at our Europe editor, Ian Traynor - which must be a good sign.

enltrJuncker has left the building. He waved at  @traynorbrussels. Really. He did pic.twitter.com/URGMlyK4Fk
— Bruno Waterfield (@BrunoBrussels)  June 24, 2015 The meeting ended in the early hours of
Thursday with Greece “remaining firm on its position” according to a Greek government official.

The two sides are really struggling to close the yawning gap over the measures Greece must take to obtain bailout funds.

As we covered yesterday, the IMF refuses to accept Athens’ plan to raise €8bn mainly through tax rises, and is demanding much tougher pension reforms.
Related:  Alexis Tsipras's homework has been thrown back in his face

Today’s goal is to make serious progress this morning, so that eurozone finance ministers have a proposal to sign off when they meet - for the fourth time in a week - at 1pm Brussels time (or noon BST)

enltrGreek talks to resume today at 0800BST in order to construct new proposals, which can be presented at the Eurogroup summit 1200BST

— RANsquawk (@RANsquawk)  June 25, 2015Then, EU leaders gather for a two-day summit this evening that was meant to focus on the migration crisis, and Britain’s renegotiation plans. Greece, though, could hijack the event, with Tsipras’s insisting that Greece must be given debt relief.
enltrMorning from Brussels where multiple crises collide: med migrant crisis, Grexit & Brexit.  #EUco
Summit in 1 building. next door Greek talks
— Faisal Islam (@faisalislam)  June 25, 2015We’ll be tracking all the events through the day.... block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.19am BST



Page 25 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
NS            gpol : Domestic Politics | gvlbr : Labor Department | gvtre : Treasury Department | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch
RE            greece : Greece | athens : Athens | brus : Brussels | uk : United Kingdom | balkz : Balkan States | belg
: Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eecz : European
Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western Europe
PUB         Guardian Newspapers Limited
AN            Document GRDN000020150625eb6p0028l





























































Page 26 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     Europa-Antitrust: Commission fines producers and distributors EUR 115 865 000 for operating retail food packaging cartels
WC    1,346 words
PD     25 June 2015
SN     ENP Newswire
SC     ENPNEW
LA      English
CY     (c) 2015, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

LP
Release date - 24062015
The European Commission has fined eight manufacturers and two distributors of  retail food packaging
trays a total of EUR115 865 000 for having participated in at least one of five separate cartels.

TD
The eight manufacturers are Huhtamaki of Finland, Nespak and Vitembal of France, Silver Plastics of Germany, Coopbox, Magic Pack and Sirap-Gema of Italy and Linpac of the UK. The two distributors are Ovarpack of Portugal and Propack of the UK.

The companies fixed prices and allocated customers of polystyrene foam or polypropylene rigid trays, in breach of EU antitrust rules. Polystyrene foam and polypropylene rigid trays are used for  packaging food sold in shops or supermarkets, for products such as cheese, meat, fish or cake. Linpac benefited from full immunity under the Commission’s 2006 Leniency Guidelines as it revealed the existence of the cartels to the Commission.

Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy, said: ‘Millions of consumers buying food for themselves and their families have potentially been hit by these cartels. The companies concerned carved up the  retail food packaging market and agreed on prices rather than competing on their merits. Cartels harm our entire economy when companies set prices instead of the market. This removes the incentive to innovate and will not be tolerated.’
The Commission’s investigation revealed the existence of five separate cartels for  retail food packaging
in a large part of the European Economic Area (EEA), namely:

In the markets for polystyrene foam trays and polypropylene rigid trays in North-West Europe (‘NWE’). This refers to Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. The conduct occurred between June 2002 and October 2007.
In the market for polystyrene foam trays in Central and Eastern Europe (‘CEE’). This refers to the Czech
Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. The conduct occurred between November 2004 and September
2007.

In the market for polystyrene foam trays in South-West Europe (‘SWE’). This refers to Portugal and Spain. The conduct occurred between March 2000 and February 2008.
In the market for polystyrene foam trays in France. The conduct occurred between September 2004 and
November 2005.
In the market for polystyrene foam trays in Italy. The conduct occurred between June 2002 and December
2007.

The companies fined today by the Commission were part of at least one of these cartels. The following table details the participation and the duration of of each company’s involvement in the five cartels:
NWE CEE


Page 27 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
SWE
France Italy Linpac
Jun 2002 -Oct 2007
Nov 2004 -Sep 2007
Mar 2000 - Feb 2008
Sep 2004- Nov 2005
Jun 2002 - Dec 2007
Vitembal
Jun 2002 -Mar 2007
Oct 2004 -Jul 2007
Sep 2004 -Nov 2005
Jul 2002 - Dec 2007
Huhtamaki
Jun 2002 -Jun 2006
Dec 2000 -Jan 2005
Sep 2004 -Nov 2005
Sirap-Gema
Nov 2004 -Sep 2007
Sep 2004 -Nov 2005
Jun 2002 -Dec 2007
Coopbox
Nov 2004 -Sep 2007
Mar 2000 -Feb 2008
Jun 2002 - Dec 2007
Nespak
Oct 2003 - Sep 2006
Magic Pack
Sep 2004 -Mar 2006
Silver Plastics
Jun 2002 -Oct 2007
Jun 2005 -Oct 2005
Ovarpack
Dec 2000 -Jan 2005 and
Oct 2007 - Feb 2008

Page 28 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Propack
Dec 2004 -Sep 2006

As can be seen in the table above, from the early 2000s and for periods ranging from just over a year to almost eight years, and with some differences between the cartels, the ten companies fixed prices, allocated customers and markets, engaged in bid-rigging and exchanged commercially-sensitive information.

Each of the cartels operated within the framework of multilateral and bilateral contacts usually held on the fringes of legitimate industry gatherings. Physical meetings were complemented by numerous emails and phone exchanges. In some of these cartels, the participants would refer to their illegal contacts as ‘the Club’ or ‘Mafia’.

Fines

The fines imposed per company for its participation in each  cartel are as follows: NWE
CEE SWE France Italy Total Linpac
0
0
0
0
0
0
Vitembal
265 000
295 000
265 000
295 000
1 120 000
Huhtamaki
10 806 000
0
4 756 000
15 562 000
Sirap-Gema
943 000
5 207 000

Page 29 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
29 738 000
35 888 000
Coopbox
602 000
10 955 000
22 137 000
33 694 000
Nespak
4 996 000
4 996 000
Magic Pack
3 263 000
3 263 000
Silver Plastics
20 317 000
893 000
21 210 000
Ovarpack
67 000
67 000
Propack
65 000
65 000
115 865 000

The fines were set on the basis of the Commission’s 2006 Guidelines on  fines (see Press Release and MEMO). In setting the level of  fines, the Commission took into account, in particular, the companies’ sales of the products concerned in the EEA, the serious nature of the infringement, its geographic scope and its duration. The  fines achieve an appropriate level of deterrence while remaining proportional to the infringement.
Under the Commission’s 2006 Leniency Notice, the following reductions were granted: NWE
CEE SWE France Italy Linpac
100%
100%

Page 30 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
100%
100%
100% Vitembal
50%
-
45%
50%
45%
Sirap-Gema
-
50%
-
30%
30% Coopbox
-
30%
30%
-
20%
Magic Pack
-
-
-
-
10%
Silver Plastics
-
-
-
10%
- Ovarpack
-
-

Page 31 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
20%
-
-

Linpac received full immunity from fines as it was the first company to reveal the  cartel to the Commission, thereby avoiding a fine of EUR 145 065 000. Other companies received reductions on their fines for their cooperation in the investigation under the Commission’s leniency programme.

In the cases of Magic Pack’s (regarding its participation in the  cartel in Italy) and Silver Plastics’ (regarding its participation in the  cartel in France), the Commission took account of their lesser involvement in these cartels when setting the  fines.
Inability to pay
Three of the undertakings have invoked their inability to pay the  fine (under point 35 of the 2006
Guidelines on fines). The Commission assessed the applications on the basis of the companies’ financial
statements for recent years, projections for the current and coming years, ratios measuring the financial
strength, profitability, solvency, liquidity, and relations with outside financial partners and with
shareholders. On this basis, the Commission granted  fine reductions to two undertakings and rejected
one application.
Background

Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 53 of the EEA Agreement prohibit cartels and other restrictive business practices.

The Commission’s investigation started with unannounced inspections in June 2008. The Commission issued a statement of objections in September 2012 and carried out an oral hearing in June 2013.

More information on this case will be available under the case number 39563 in the public case register on the Commission’s competition website, once confidentiality issues have been dealt with. For more information on the Commission’s action against cartels, see its cartels website.
Action for damages

Any person or firm affected by anti-competitive behaviour as described in this case may bring the matter before the courts of the Member States and seek damages. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Antitrust Regulation 1/2003 both confirm that in cases before national courts, a Commission decision is binding proof that the behaviour took place and was illegal. Even though the Commission has fined the companies concerned, damages can be awarded without these being reduced on account of the Commission  fine.
The Antitrust Damages Directive, which the Member States have to implement in their legal systems by 27
December 2016, makes it easier for victims of anti-competitive practices to obtain damages. More
information on antitrust damages actions, including a practical guide on how to quantify antitrust harm, is
available here.
IP/15/5253
Press contacts
Ricardo CARDOSO (+32 2 298 01 00) Carolina LUNA GORDO (+32 2 296 83 86) Yizhou REN (+32 2 299 48 89)
General public inquiries:
Europe Direct by phone 00 800 67 89 10 11 or by email
[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO     itlmob : Italmobiliare SpA | linpak : Linpac Group Ltd | montpv : Montagu Private Equity Limited | pesent : Pesenti Group
IN      i471 : Paper Mills | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ipper : Paper/Pulp

Page 32 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
NS     c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | npress : Press Releases | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
PUB   Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN     Document ENPNEW0020150625eb6p0000a


































































Page 33 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     (AE) COMPETITION: Commission rules on two cartels
WC    719 words
PD     25 June 2015
SN     Bulletin Quotidien Europe
SC     AGEU
LA     English
CY     Copyright 2015. Agence Europe All Rights Reserved

LP
Brussels, 24/06/2015 (Agence Europe) - On Wednesday 24 June, the Competition Commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, announced two decisions of the  European Commission on cartels: - fines of a total of €115,865,000 have been handed down to eight manufacturers and two distributors of retail food packaging; - a statement of objections has been sent to five lead recycling companies in the car battery sector.

In the first of these cases, the Commission noted that eight manufacturers (Huhtamäki of Finland, Nespak and Vitembal of France, Silver Plastics of Germany, Coopbox, Magic Pack and Sirap-Gema of Italy and Linpac of the United Kingdom) and two distributors (Ovarpack of Portugal and Propack of the United Kingdom) of  retail food packaging had been involved in five separate cartels.

TD
These companies fixed prices and allocated customers on the market for polystyrene foam or polypropylene rigid trays, both used for the  packaging of foods sold in shops or supermarkets for products such as cheese, meat, fish and cakes.

The first  cartel was on the market for both types of  packaging in north-western Europe (Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden). The companies which participated in the  cartel during various periods between 2002 and 2007 are Linpac, Vitembal, Huhtamäki and Silver Plastics. The second  cartel was in the market for polystyrene foam trays in Central and Eastern Europe (Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia). During various periods from 2004 to 2007, Linpac, Sirap-Gema, Coopbox and Propack were involved in this  cartel. The third  cartel was for polystyrene foam trays in south-western Europe (Portugal and Spain) and the companies involved during various periods between 2000 and 2008 were Linpac, Vitembal, Huhtamäki, Coopbox and Ovaparck. The fourth cartel was for polystyrene foam trays in France. Linpac, Vitembal, Huhtamäki and Sirap-Gema all participated between September 2004 and November 2005 and Silver Plastics between June and October
2005. Lastly, the fifth  cartel was in the market for polystyrene foam trays in Italy, involving Linpac,
Sirap-Gema, Coopbox, Vitembal, Nespak and Magic Pack for various periods between 2002 and 2007.

Each of the cartels was implemented in the framework of multilateral and bilateral contacts, which generally took place on the sidelines of legitimate sector meetings. In some of the cartels, the participants referred to their illegal contacts as 'the Mafia' or 'the club'.

Despite being the only company to have taken part in every one of these cartels, Linpac received full immunity as it was the first company to reveal the existence of the cartels. It thereby avoids a  fine of €145 million. The other companies'  fines were reduced as they cooperated with the Commission's investigations. Additionally, the institution took account of the lesser involvement of Magic Pack and Silver Plastics in the cartels. Three of the companies invoked their inability to pay the  fine. Following analysis, the Commission granted reductions to two companies and rejected one application.

“When a company comes forward and says that they are not able to pay, we need to look thoroughly if this is justified. We want to penalise the behaviour, the point is not to kill the company, we try to keep this balance”, Vestager explained at a press conference.

Statement of objections. On Wednesday, the Commission also informed five lead recycling companies that it suspected them of having taken part in a  cartel for the purchase of scrap lead-acid batteries. In Europe, practically all lead-acid batteries are recycled once they are no longer used. The recycling companies by the scrap batteries from various suppliers and extract the lead from them, which can then be used to make new products.
Page 34 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The Commission suspects these five companies, which it has declined to name for the time being, of having taken part in a  cartel between 2009 and 2012 aiming to set the purchase prices for this scrap in Belgium, France, Germany and the Netherlands. It alleges that these companies agreed on prices or coordinated their price practices solely to ensure higher profit margins. Consequently, these companies may have lowered the prices paid to scrap dealers, many of which are SMEs. This conduct, it explains, could ultimately be to the detriment of the sellers, as it would likely reduce the value of used batteries sold for scrap. (Elodie Lamer)

CO    itlmob : Italmobiliare SpA | linpak : Linpac Group Ltd | montpv : Montagu Private Equity Limited | pesent : Pesenti Group
IN      i471 : Paper Mills | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ipper : Paper/Pulp
NS     c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | gorgnz : Organized Crime | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE     belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
PUB  Agence Europe SA
AN     Document AGEU000020150626eb6p00003

















































Page 35 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD     EC fines ten groups  for price collusion
WC    110 words
PD     25 June 2015
SN     German Collection
SC     GERCOL
LA      English
CY     (c) 2015 AII Data Processing Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

LP
The European Commission (EC) has imposed a fine of EUR 115.865 million on eight manufacturers and two distributors for their involvement in price collusions and the division of clients.

One of the groups involved in the  cartel is German packaging company Silver Plastics, which is to pay EUR 21.21 million. All companies involved make foam trays from polystyrene and “bend-proof” foam trays from polypropylene. Those are used for  packaging food such as cheese, meat, fish or cakes, which are sold in supermarkets or other stores.

TD
Abstracted from an original article in Die Welt (Milliardenbuße für Verpackungshersteller).
Source: (DH/DH/DH)

IN       ipap : Packaging | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
NS     c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | nabst : Abstracts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE     gfr : Germany | dach : DACH Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
PUB   AII Data Processing Limited
AN     Document GERCOL0020150625eb6p00105































Page 36 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     News in brief

BY     Joseph Chang WC    2,370 words PD     25 June 2015
SN     ICIS News
SC     ICISN
LA      English
CY     © Copyright 2015. Reed Business Information Limited. All rights reserved.

LP
AMERICAS
BRAZIL SET TO EXPORT PVC AMID SLOW DEMAND

TD
Weak polyvinyl chloride (PVC) demand is driving Brazil to export to other regions. The initiative is unusual for a country that is typically a net PVC importer with production generally not sufficient to fully meet domestic demand. Reduced domestic demand for PVC is a reflection of the ailing Brazilian economy. Brazil is offering PVC to Turkey at $850/tonne CFR (cost and freight), sources in South America and the Middle East said.
GDP OF BRAZIL EXPECTED TO SHRINK 1.45% IN 2015

Brazil’s economic outlook continues to deteriorate, with analysts now expecting GDP to shrink by 1.45% this year. The Central Bank of Brazil conducts a weekly survey about various economic indicators. For nearly every update, economists have continued to lower their outlook. The outlook for 2016, once stable at 1.00% growth, has also started falling. Economists now expect 2016 GDP to grow by just 0.70%. Inflation is at 8.47%, well above the central bank’s target of 2.5-6.5%.
LINDE STARTS UP LA PORTE ASU, GASIFIER IN TEXAS

Linde has started up an air separation unit and gasifier in La Porte, Texas. The separation unit produces oxygen, nitrogen and argon, Linde said. It is part of the $250m that the company invested at the site. The gasifier converts natural gas into synthesis gas (syngas), a mix of carbon monoxide and hydrogen, Linde said. It is shipping the syngas via pipeline to an undisclosed key customer. The company did not reveal the capacities of the units.
WILLIAMS REJECTS $47.9BN TAKEOVER BID AS ‘TOO LOW’

US-based midstream producer Williams rejected an unsolicited offer to buy it for $64/share. The offer is worth $47.9bn. Williams did not identify which company made the offer, but said the offer was too low. Bloomberg reported that it was Energy Transfer Equity. The offer also was contingent on Williams ending its $13.8bn acquisition of affiliate Williams Partners. Williams said it now will consider whether to sell itself, merge with another company or continue as a stand-alone company.
INEOS ACN PLANT REMAINS SHUT FOLLOWING FATALITY

US acrylonitrile market participants continue to monitor the potential impacts of the INEOS Nitriles plant shutdown in Texas, following a chemical exposure fatality 10 June at the Green Lake facility. The worker was exposed to cyanide, according to media reports. It was unknown how long the 545,000 tonne/year plant would be shut down. An INEOS spokesperson said it is company policy not to comment on operations. Consumers are hoping that the issue is resolved soon, although some market sources have said that the investigation could take months.
LYONDELLBASELL PUTS PP ON SALES ALLOCATION

LyondellBasell has put its US polypropylene customers on sales allocation for three months due to planned and unplanned production outages at plants in Texas and Louisiana. A letter dated 19 June said

Page 37 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
customers would be limited to a percentage of their historical purchases up to the end of September. A buyer said the letter described what appeared to be a 100% allocation. “They’re just not going to have extra product in the next few months,” the buyer said.
CHEMOURS PREPARES TO MAKE 1 JULY NYSE DEBUT

DuPont’s Chemours performance chemicals spin-off is expected to begin regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange on 1 July. The shares will trade under the ticker symbol “CC”. As of 19 June, the shares began trading on a “when issued” basis under the ticker symbol “CC WI”, DuPont said. Securities begin trading on a when-issued basis when they have been announced, but not yet issued. Chemours includes DuPont’s titanium technologies, fluoroproducts and chemical solutions businesses.
ARSENAL CLOSES SALE OF ROYAL ADHESIVES

New York-based private equity firm Arsenal Capital Partners announced that it has completed the sale of Royal Adhesives and Sealants to American Securities, another private equity firm. Arsenal said that since it acquired the company in 2010, Indiana-based Royal has become a top ten global supplier of adhesives and sealants, with sales in excess of $600m annually. While owned by Arsenal, Royal was merged with Para-Chem Southern, a provider of specialty adhesives, coatings and polymers. Financial terms of the transaction were not made public.
US GULF-ASIA CHEMICAL FREIGHT RATES UP IN JUNE

US Gulf to Asia chemical freight rates jumped $10/tonne on small cargoes in June. Rates on 2,000-tonne shipments rose to $85-95/tonne from $75-85, on higher interest in acrylonitrile, iso-butanol and other intermediates, brokers said. The most popular rate category, on 5,000 tonne shipments, remained stable at $56-63/tonne. A broker said styrene from Texas to Korea continued to generate inquiries, although there were no new fixtures.
BRAZIL POLICE ARREST CEO IN PETROBRAS PROBE

Brazilian federal police arrested the CEO of family-owned industrial conglomerate Odebrecht on 19 June for his alleged central role in a massive corruption scheme involving contracts with state-run oil company Petrobras. Marcelo Odebrecht was detained at his home in Sao Paulo on charges of bribery, contract fraud and forming an illegal  cartel, official state news service Agencia Brasil said. Odebrecht is the controlling shareholder of petrochemical giant Braskem.
WILLIAMS RUNS CRACKER AT 87% CAPACITY

US-based Williams Olefins said it is operating its Geismar cracker in Louisiana at 87% of its full expanded capacity. The operating rate puts ethylene production at 4.63m lb/day (2,100 tonnes/day), with the full operating rate at 1.95bn lb/year. The cracker was shut down on 20 May after a power outages, the company said, with power restored the next day. The company added that it is also maximising its propylene production at the cracker.
EUROPE
EC FINES PACKAGERS ON PLASTICS PRICE FIXING RAP

The European Commission (EC) has fined 10 plastics packaging firms a total of almost €116m for participating in five retail food packaging cartels. The firms – eight manufacturers and two distributors – fixed prices and allocated customers of polystyrene (PS) foam or polypropylene (PP) rigid trays, the EC said. PS foam and PP rigid trays are used for  packaging food sold in shops or supermarkets, for products such as cheese, meat, fish or cake.
EUROPE CAPRO DEMAND UP TO 15% HIGHER IN JUNE
European caprolactam (capro) demand in June is expected to be 15% higher than in the same month of
2014 because the traditional summer slowdown which typically takes place in the downstream nylon 6
market this month has not materialised, market players said. Downstream nylon 6 demand is strong
because of high offtake from the European automotive sector amid firming passenger car registrations in
the first half of 2015, and unseasonable high demand for bulk continuous filament (BCF) fibre.
BPRP CRACKER OFFLINE; RESTART BEING ATTEMPTED

BP Refining & Petrochemicals’s (BPRP) Olefins 3 cracker in Gelsenkirchen, Germany, failed to restart over the 20-21 June weekend and a further restart attempt was under way, market sources said. The cracker, one of two owned and operated by BPRP at the Gelsenkirchen site, has been off line since 22

Page 38 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
May following earlier unsuccessful restarts and other technical issues, which started when the whole site was hit by a power outage in late March.
CEPSA PHENOL, ACETONE FM LIKELY TO BE LIFTED

CEPSA’s force majeure on phenol and acetone at its Huelva site in Spain is still in place but could be lifted soon as production has now been largely restored, a company source confirmed. CEPSA
announced a force majeure at the site on 11 May due to mechanical issues affecting one condenser at the phenol III production unit. The issues have now been largely resolved and the company confirms production has been stable for some time.
LYONDELLBASELL’S ITALY PP PLANT BACK ON STREAM

LyondellBasell’s Brindisi 2 polypropylene (PP) plant in Italy is back on stream, market sources said. The plant failed following an incident that led to the plant’s shutdown and subsequent declaration of force majeure. LyondellBasell informed customers of the force majeure in a letter dated 16 June, which said the force majeure was caused by a “leakage in the flare line and failure of heat exchanger equipment in the transfer line”.
BASF DECLARES NYLON 6,6 FM AT LUDWIGSHAFEN

Germany-based BASF has declared force majeure (FM) on nylon 6,6 from Ludwigshafen because of problems obtaining hexamethylene diamine (HMDA) – an intermediate used in nylon 6,6 production – a company source confirmed. The FM was declared on 16 June and it is unclear how long it will last. Nylon
6,6 supply was already tight prior to the BASF announcement because of a force majeure on adiponitrile
(ADN) and HDMA at INVISTA’s plant in Victoria, Texas, US.
FMS REMAIN AT OXICHIMIE AS PRODUCTION RESTARTS
The Oxochimie plant at Lavera, France, restarted production of oxo-alcohols, sources at both Arkema and
INEOS Oxide confirmed. The Oxochimie plant – a 50:50 joint venture between Arkema and INEOS Oxide
– had been out of production since the second half of May. Both of the producers are still in force majeure.
The plant is back in production at reduced capacity, with the force majeures likely to remain until full
production has been achieved and inventory rebuilt.
BASF CHOOSES FLUOR FOR GLOBAL ENGINEERING ROLE

BASF has selected Fluor as its global engineering partner for future chemical and petrochemical plant projects around the world. Under a services agreement signed, Fluor will handle conceptual and front-end engineering, detailed engineering, procurement, project management, construction management and
other services. Fluor’s chief operating officer, Peter Oosterveer, said: “We will now be able to leverage Fluor’s global capabilities to provide integrated solutions and deliver chemical and petrochemical plant projects for BASF anywhere in the world.”
NEW POLISH MINISTER BACKS METHANOL PROJECT

Poland’s new treasury minister backed Zaklady Azotowe Kedzierzyn’s (ZAK’s) plans to revive a polygeneration investment that would lead to the first Polish industrial-scale production of methanol. Andrzej Czerwinski said ZAK’s “innovative project” to use synthesis gas feedstock from the gasification of hard coal to produce methanol and urea, as well as heat and electricity, “could be an impulse that accelerates the development of the Polish chemical industry”.
ASIA
THAILAND’S PTT DELAYS START-UP OF PHENOL 2

Thailand’s sole phenol/acetone producer PTT Phenol has delayed the start-up of its phenol/acetone plant at Map Ta Phut in Rayong province to mid-November 2015, from September, a company source said. Problems related to the plant’s construction have caused the delay, the source added. The new plant, named “PTT Phenol 2 Project”, will have a phenol capacity of 250,000 tonnes/year and an acetone capacity of 155,000 tonnes/year. Separately, the producer is running its existing phenol/acetone plant at the same Map Ta Phut site at 100% capacity, the source added.
HYOSUNG BRINGS FORWARD START-UP OF ULSAN PDH

South Korea’s Hyosung Corp is bringing forward the start-up schedule of its 300,000 tonne/year propane dehydrogenation (PDH) unit in Ulsan to July, from September originally, a source close to the company said. The company is planning to feed propane into the facility in July and commercial production could follow in August, the source said. The exact start-up date has not been decided yet, the source said.
Page 39 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
SHANDONG LIHUAYI BEGINS TRIAL RUN AT BPA PLANT

Chinese phenol/acetone producer Shandong Lihuayi on 20 June began a trial run at its new bisphenol A (BPA) plant, as scheduled, a company source said. The plant, located at Dongying in China’s Shandong province, will have the capacity to produce 120,000 tonnes/year of BPA. The producer expects to attain on-spec BPA output around mid-July, the source added. Shandong Lihuayi’s integrated upstream phenol/acetone plant can produce 220,000 tonnes/year of phenol and 130,000 tonnes/year of acetone.
SHEN HUA SHUTS NANTONG SBR ON POOR MARGINS

China’s Shen Hua Chemicals has shut its 180,000 tonne/year styrene butadiene rubber (SBR) plant in Nantong for a three-week maintenance from 23 June, a company source said. “We brought forward the maintenance schedule of the SBR plant because of weak demand and high feedstock butadiene (BD) costs, which have squeezed our margins,” the source said. The plant was originally scheduled to undergo turnaround in October-November.
TWO MONTHS OFF LINE FOR CHINA’S DYNAMIC BG UNIT

Chinese producer Dynamic (Nanjing) Chemical Industry’s butyl glycol (BG) unit at Nanjing in Jiangsu province is likely to be off line for at least two months following a fire, a company sources said. The plant, which has a combined BG and butyl di-glycol (BdG) capacity of 80,000 tonnes/year, was shut down after a fire broke out on 12 June. BG, derived from EO and n-butanol (NBA), is also known as ethylene glycol ethers (EGE).
MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA
SADARA JV 94% COMPLETE, PE TO BEGIN IN LATE 2015

Construction at Dow Chemical’s Saudi Arabian Sadara petrochemicals joint venture with Saudi Aramco is now 94% complete, the US-based chemicals firm said on 23 June. The commissioning and startup of utilities infrastructure at the new petrochemicals complex in Jubail Industrial City II is under way, “and the process for first production units will begin in the second half of the year, with initial polyethylene (PE) production beginning near the end of 2015,” Dow said. Full site operations remain on track for the end of
2016.
CORRECTIONS

The table “Global New passenger Vehicle Registrations in 2015” on page 24 of the 15 June issue has an incomplete list of sources. In our digital edition it has now been corrected to “ACEA, AutoData, CAAM, JAMA, ANFAVEA”. On page 18 of the 22 June issue we inserted the wrong price graph. US epoxy resins has now been replaced with US glycol ethers. Also in the 22 June issue we inserted the wrong price graph on the top story on page 13. The Europe polypropylene (PP) graph has now been replaced with polyethylene (PE).
CT     +1 713 525 2653, icisnews.americas@icis.com

NS     cspin : Demergers | cprdcl : Facility Closures | nsum : News Digests | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
RE     braz : Brazil | skorea : South Korea | ustx : Texas | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America | usa : United States | uss : Southern U.S.
PUB   Reed Business Information Limited
AN     Document ICISN00020150629eb6p0017e












Page 40 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      The Morning  Risk Report: Foreign Banks Fall Under U.S.-Russia Sanctions
BY      By Joel Schectman
WC     1,563 words
PD      26 June 2015
ET       06:32 PM
SN      Dow Jones Institutional News
SC      DJDN
LA       English
CY      Copyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LP
A new sanctions rule allows President Barack Obama to punish banks outside the U.S. if they help finance blacklisted Russian companies or individuals. The potential expansion of sanctions to foreign banks, targeted because of their Russia business, represents a significant new corporate risk that few have begun to consider.

TD
The provision to penalize foreign banks because of their relationship to blacklisted Russians--a measure sometimes called secondary sanctions--was included in the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, but only took effect last week. The provision authorizes the president to use sanctions against a foreign bank if it "knowingly facilitated a significant financial transaction on behalf of any Russian person included on
the list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons," referring to specially designated nationals, who have been blacklisted from U.S. trade by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control. Those penalties could include restrictions on any correspondent accounts in the U.S. What
counts as "[significant] is left to interpretation," said Meredith Rathbone, a sanctions specialist at Steptoe
& Johnson LLP. The fuzziness of that threshold could have a "chilling effect" on foreign banks that have
relationships with Russia, she said. Previously, a non-U.S. bank would not have to worry about getting
targeted by OFAC because of its Russia transactions, as long as it didn't move funds to blacklisted
parties through the U.S., Ms. Rathbone said.

"Many non-U.S. banks are already deciding to stay away from SDNs," she said. "But those that would engage with SDNs would now have an additional disincentive."
Readers can subscribe to The Morning Risk Report here:  http://on.wsj.com/MorningRiskReportSignup
Follow us on Twitter at @WSJRisk.
EXCLUSIVE ON RISK AND COMPLIANCE JOURNAL

OECD criticizes Israel over bribery. Israel has not prosecuted a single foreign bribery case in the seven years since its law criminalizing it came into effect, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Wednesday in a report.

SEC drops probe of Gold Fields . South African miner Gold Fields Ltd. said the Securities and Exchange Commission's foreign bribery unit told the company it closed an investigation without filing charges. Gold Fields said in a statement that the SEC's Foreign Corrupt Practices Act unit told the miner it completed its probe into a $210 million payment to a black economic empowerment fund related to Gold Fields' efforts to get a license to mine in South Deep, one of the world's largest gold deposits.
COMPLIANCE

Judge blocks mega food merger. A federal judge on Tuesday issued a preliminary injunction blocking Sysco Corp.'s planned acquisition of rival  food distributor US Foods Inc., a ruling that could kill a deal to combine the nation's two largest  food distributors, the WSJ reports. The decision by U.S. District Judge Amit Mehta in Washington handed a victory to the Federal Trade Commission, which filed a lawsuit in February challenging the transaction on antitrust grounds.



Page 41 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
U.K. rules delay bank bonus payments. Senior U.K. bankers will have to wait seven years to collect their annual bonus payments in full under tough new rules released Tuesday, the WSJ report. Three years must pass from the time of an award to receive any pay out, and top bank executives will have a 10-year wait to be sure the bonus won't be clawed back. Risk managers will wait five years to receive any performance awards in full, while traders and other "risk takers" will have at least a three-year wait.

Julius Baer sets aside money for settlement . Julius Baer Group AG said it is setting aside $350 million to settle a U.S. Justice Department investigation of the Swiss bank's alleged role in helping Americans evade taxes, indicating that a resolution of the long-standing probe may be at hand, the WSJ reports.

EU fines packaging companies. The European Commission said on Wednesday it had found eight manufacturers and two distributors of retail food packaging trays guilty of participating in cartels and set fines of a total of 115.9 million euros ($129.90 million), Reuters reports. The Commission said it had discovered five separate cartels of polystyrene foam polypropylene rigid trays for products such as cheese, meat, fish or cake and operating in regions of Europe for between one and almost eight years.

EU alleges battery market collusion. European Union antitrust regulators charged five companies on Wednesday for taking part in a car battery recycling cartel in Belgium, France, Germany and the Netherlands from 2009 to 2012, Reuters reports. The European Commission, which governs competition issues, said it had concerns that the recycling companies participated in a  cartel aimed at fixing the purchase price for scrap lead-acid batteries, from which lead is extracted.

SEC freezes assets of China trader. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission obtained a court order Tuesday to freeze the assets of a China-based trader for suspicious activity ahead of a $9 billion buyout offer for a U.S.-listed Chinese Internet company last week, the WSJ reports. Haijian Luo, chief executive of a Chinese online company 4399 Co., bought approximately $700,000 of out-of-the-money call options, or bets that the stock price of a company will go up, before last week's announcement of a buyout offer for Qihoo 360 Technology, according to a news release from the SEC. A person at Mr. Luo's company said she didn't know how to reach him.

U.K. launches probe of tech company. The Financial Conduct Authority has launched an investigation into Quindell PLC's public statements regarding its financial accounts, Reuters reports. The insurance and personal injury claims processor has had a tumultuous year during which it has wrestled with questions over its revenue model and profit quality and seen its chairman quit over a stock deal.

Australia to probe sports corruption. An Australian parliamentary inquiry will investigate foreign bribery in the wake of allegations of corruption by FIFA officials during the World Cup bidding process, The Herald Sun reports. A parliamentary committee will look at possible improvements to federal laws and Australia's obligations under international conventions.

Many China fugitives flee to U.S. China issued global arrest warrants for 100 fugitives in April. Most of them, it turns out, are believed to be corrupt officials hiding out in the U.S. or Canada, NPR reports. Huang Feng, a criminal law expert at Beijing Normal University, said they pick the U.S. for its standard of living and its mature legal system. They know that the U.S. and China have no extradition treaty, and that the U.S. is wary of sending fugitives back to China, where they may be denied legal due process.
GOVERNANCE

WSJ surveys CEO pay. A substantial part of American CEOs' pay is now tied to performance. But that doesn't mean their compensation follows their results in lockstep. The Wall Street Journal's annual pay survey looked at compensation for 300 CEOs and the returns the chiefs delivered to their shareholders. Broadly speaking, CEOs did well when their investors did. All 10 of the CEOs posting the best shareholder returns were paid more than they had been a year earlier, and all but two of the 10 worst performers got pay cuts. The results come as pressure from investors has prompted companies to tie a greater percentage of their top executives' pay to measurable results.

Private equity investors warn on ESG. Private equity investors have warned that managers may not be focusing enough on environmental, social and governance issues as a competitive market means that deals are being done more quickly, Private Equity News reports. High-profile European private equity investors speaking at the Private Equity International Responsible Investment Forum 2015 in London on Tuesday said that assessing risks on ESG was becoming less important to private equity fund managers. This is potentially putting at risk investors seeking to co-invest alongside those firms.
RISK

Risk managers command higher pay. Risk managers have an increasingly prominent and challenging remit, but the rewards come in the form of increasingly lucrative compensation packages, Financial News reports. That is according to headhunters, who say there has been a clear rise in base salaries and
Page 42 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
bonuses for risk roles in the past 12 months as demand for new hires has combined with a dearth of candidates with the required skills.
OPERATIONS

Driver shortages affect trucking. The shortage of drivers is having ripple effects throughout the transportation industry, squeezing carriers with smaller truck fleets and boosting the use of rail freight, the WSJ reports. As freight volume gained momentum, "the trucking industry edged even closer to 100% utilization," said a State of Logistics report released Tuesday by the Council of Supply Chain
Management Professionals. Industry indicators for hauling capacity indicate "that truck capacity has grown extremely tight."
STRATEGY

Alibaba falters in U.S. expansion . Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.'s decision to sell its U.S. online shopping site to a U.S. rival highlights the challenges facing the Chinese electronic-commerce company in mature Western markets dominated by competitors such as Amazon.com Inc. and eBay Inc., the WSJ reports.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
June 26, 2015 12:32 ET (16:32 GMT)
IN        i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services

NS      gesanc : International Sanctions | gbrib : Bribery | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c17 : Corporate Funding | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcorrp : Corruption | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gdip : International Relations | gfinc : Financial Crime | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE      russ : Russia | usa : United States | eurz : Europe | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | namz : North America | ussrz : CIS Countries
PUB    Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN      Document DJDN000020150626eb6q0027e






























Page 43 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE     Week in brief
HD     Rex Features
WC    2,367 words
PD     29 June 2015
SN     ICIS Chemical Business
SC     ACHEN
VOL   3665
LA      English
CY     Copyright 2015. Reed Business Information Limited. All rights reserved.

LP
Rex Features
americas

TD
BRAZIL SET TO EXPORT PVC AMID SLOW DEMAND

Weak polyvinyl chloride (PVC) demand is driving Brazil to export to other regions. The initiative is unusual for a country that is typically a net PVC importer with production generally not sufficient to fully meet domestic demand. Reduced domestic demand for PVC is a reflection of the ailing Brazilian economy. Brazil is offering PVC to Turkey at $850/tonne CFR (cost and freight), sources in South America and the Middle East said.
GDP of brazil expected TO SHRINK 1.45% IN 2015

Brazil’s economic outlook continues to deteriorate, with analysts now expecting GDP to shrink by 1.45% this year. The Central Bank of Brazil conducts a weekly survey about various economic indicators. For nearly every update, economists have continued to lower their outlook. The outlook for 2016, once stable at 1.00% growth, has also started falling. Economists now expect 2016 GDP to grow by just 0.70%. Inflation is at 8.47%, well above the central bank’s target of 2.5-6.5%.
LINDE STARTS UP La Porte ASU, GASIFIER in Texas

Linde has started up an air separation unit and gasifier in La Porte, Texas. The separation unit produces oxygen, nitrogen and argon, Linde said. It is part of the $250m that the company invested at the site. The gasifier converts natural gas into synthesis gas (syngas), a mix of carbon monoxide and hydrogen, Linde said. It is shipping the syngas via pipeline to an undisclosed key customer. The company did not reveal the capacities of the units.
WILLIAMS REJECTS $47.9BN TAKEOVER BID as ‘too low’

US-based midstream producer Williams rejected an unsolicited offer to buy it for $64/share. The offer is worth $47.9bn. Williams did not identify which company made the offer, but said the offer was too low. Bloomberg reported that it was Energy Transfer Equity. The offer also was contingent on Williams ending its $13.8bn acquisition of affiliate Williams Partners. Williams said it now will consider whether to sell itself, merge with another company or continue as a stand-alone company.
INEOS ACN PLANT REMAINS SHUT following FATALITY

US acrylonitrile market participants continue to monitor the potential impacts of the INEOS Nitriles plant shutdown in Texas, following a chemical exposure fatality 10 June at the Green Lake facility. The worker was exposed to cyanide, according to media reports. It was unknown how long the 545,000 tonne/year plant would be shut down. An INEOS spokesperson said it is company policy not to comment on operations. Consumers are hoping that the issue is resolved soon, although some market sources have said that the investigation could take months.
LYONDELLBASELL PUTS PP ON SALES ALLOCATION

LyondellBasell has put its US polypropylene customers on sales allocation for three months due to planned and unplanned production outages at plants in Texas and Louisiana. A letter dated 19 June said
Page 44 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
customers would be limited to a percentage of their historical purchases up to the end of September. A buyer said the letter described what appeared to be a 100% allocation. “They’re just not going to have extra product in the next few months,” the buyer said.
CHEMOURS prepares TO make 1 JULY NYSE DEBUT

DuPont’s Chemours performance chemicals spin-off is expected to begin regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange on 1 July. The shares will trade under the ticker symbol “CC”. As of 19 June, the shares began trading on a “when issued” basis under the ticker symbol “CC WI”, DuPont said. Securities begin trading on a when-issued basis when they have been announced, but not yet issued. Chemours includes DuPont’s titanium technologies, fluoroproducts and chemical solutions businesses.

ARSENAL CLOSES SALE OF ROYAL ADHESIVES

New York-based private equity firm Arsenal Capital Partners announced that it has completed the sale of Royal Adhesives and Sealants to American Securities, another private equity firm. Arsenal said that since it acquired the company in 2010, Indiana-based Royal has become a top ten global supplier of adhesives and sealants, with sales in excess of $600m annually. While owned by Arsenal, Royal was merged with Para-Chem Southern, a provider of specialty adhesives, coatings and polymers. Financial terms of the transaction were not made public.
US GULF-ASIA CHEMical FREIGHT RATES up in june

US Gulf to Asia chemical freight rates jumped $10/tonne on small cargoes in June. Rates on 2,000-tonne shipments rose to $85-95/tonne from $75-85, on higher interest in acrylonitrile, iso-butanol and other intermediates, brokers said. The most popular rate category, on 5,000 tonne shipments, remained stable at $56-63/tonne. A broker said styrene from Texas to Korea continued to generate inquiries, although there were no new fixtures.
BRAZIL POLICE ARREST CEO IN PETROBRAS PROBE

Brazilian federal police arrested the CEO of family-owned industrial conglomerate Odebrecht on 19 June for his alleged central role in a massive corruption scheme involving contracts with state-run oil company Petrobras. Marcelo Odebrecht was detained at his home in Sao Paulo on charges of bribery, contract fraud and forming an illegal  cartel, official state news service Agencia Brasil said. Odebrecht is the controlling shareholder of petrochemical giant Braskem.
WILLIAMS RUNS CRACKER AT 87% CAPACITY

US-based Williams Olefins said it is operating its Geismar cracker in Louisiana at 87% of its full expanded capacity. The operating rate puts ethylene production at 4.63m lb/day (2,100 tonnes/day), with the full operating rate at 1.95bn lb/year. The cracker was shut down on 20 May after a power outages, the company said, with power restored the next day. The company added that it is also maximising its propylene production at the cracker.
europe
EC fines packagers on PLASTICS price fixing RAP

The European Commission (EC) has fined 10 plastics packaging firms a total of almost €116m for participating in five retail food packaging cartels. The firms – eight manufacturers and two distributors – fixed prices and allocated customers of polystyrene (PS) foam or polypropylene (PP) rigid trays, the EC said. PS foam and PP rigid trays are used for  packaging food sold in shops or supermarkets, for products such as cheese, meat, fish or cake.
Europe capro demand up to 15% higher IN JUNE
European caprolactam (capro) demand in June is expected to be 15% higher than in the same month of
2014 because the traditional summer slowdown which typically takes place in the downstream nylon 6
market this month has not materialised, market players said. Downstream nylon 6 demand is strong
because of high offtake from the European automotive sector amid firming passenger car registrations in
the first half of 2015, and unseasonable high demand for bulk continuous filament (BCF) fibre.
BPRP cracker offline; restart being attempted

BP Refining & Petrochemicals’s (BPRP) Olefins 3 cracker in Gelsenkirchen, Germany, failed to restart over the 20-21 June weekend and a further restart attempt was under way, market sources said. The cracker, one of two owned and operated by BPRP at the Gelsenkirchen site, has been off line since 22
Page 45 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
May following earlier unsuccessful restarts and other technical issues, which started when the whole site was hit by a power outage in late March.
CEPSA phenol, acetone FM likely to be lifted

CEPSA’s force majeure on phenol and acetone at its Huelva site in Spain is still in place but could be lifted soon as production has now been largely restored, a company source confirmed. CEPSA
announced a force majeure at the site on 11 May due to mechanical issues affecting one condenser at the phenol III production unit. The issues have now been largely resolved and the company confirms production has been stable for some time.
LyondellBasell’s Italy PP plant back on stream

LyondellBasell’s Brindisi 2 polypropylene (PP) plant in Italy is back on stream, market sources said. The plant failed following an incident that led to the plant’s shutdown and subsequent declaration of force majeure. LyondellBasell informed customers of the force majeure in a letter dated 16 June, which said the force majeure was caused by a “leakage in the flare line and failure of heat exchanger equipment in the transfer line”.
BASF declares nylon 6,6 FM at Ludwigshafen

Germany-based BASF has declared force majeure (FM) on nylon 6,6 from Ludwigshafen because of problems obtaining hexamethylene diamine (HMDA) – an intermediate used in nylon 6,6 production – a company source confirmed. The FM was declared on 16 June and it is unclear how long it will last. Nylon
6,6 supply was already tight prior to the BASF announcement because of a force majeure on adiponitrile
(ADN) and HDMA at INVISTA’s plant in Victoria, Texas, US.
FMS REMAIN AT OXICHIMIE AS PRODUCTION RESTARTS
The Oxochimie plant at Lavera, France, restarted production of oxo-alcohols, sources at both Arkema and
INEOS Oxide confirmed. The Oxochimie plant – a 50:50 joint venture between Arkema and INEOS Oxide
– had been out of production since the second half of May. Both of the producers are still in force majeure.
The plant is back in production at reduced capacity, with the force majeures likely to remain until full
production has been achieved and inventory rebuilt.
BASF chooses Fluor for global engineering role

BASF has selected Fluor as its global engineering partner for future chemical and petrochemical plant projects around the world. Under a services agreement signed, Fluor will handle conceptual and front-end engineering, detailed engineering, procurement, project management, construction management and
other services. Fluor’s chief operating officer, Peter Oosterveer, said: “We will now be able to leverage Fluor’s global capabilities to provide integrated solutions and deliver chemical and petrochemical plant projects for BASF anywhere in the world.”
New Polish minister backs methanol project

Poland’s new treasury minister backed Zaklady Azotowe Kedzierzyn’s (ZAK’s) plans to revive a polygeneration investment that would lead to the first Polish industrial-scale production of methanol. Andrzej Czerwinski said ZAK’s “innovative project” to use synthesis gas feedstock from the gasification of hard coal to produce methanol and urea, as well as heat and electricity, “could be an impulse that accelerates the development of the Polish chemical industry”.
asia
Thailand’s PTT delays start-up of Phenol 2

Thailand’s sole phenol/acetone producer PTT Phenol has delayed the start-up of its phenol/acetone plant at Map Ta Phut in Rayong province to mid-November 2015, from September, a company source said. Problems related to the plant’s construction have caused the delay, the source added. The new plant, named “PTT Phenol 2 Project”, will have a phenol capacity of 250,000 tonnes/year and an acetone capacity of 155,000 tonnes/year. Separately, the producer is running its existing phenol/acetone plant at the same Map Ta Phut site at 100% capacity, the source added.
Hyosung brings forward start-up of Ulsan PDH

South Korea’s Hyosung Corp is bringing forward the start-up schedule of its 300,000 tonne/year propane dehydrogenation (PDH) unit in Ulsan to July, from September originally, a source close to the company said. The company is planning to feed propane into the facility in July and commercial production could follow in August, the source said. The exact start-up date has not been decided yet, the source said.
Page 46 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Shandong Lihuayi begins trial run at BPA plant

Chinese phenol/acetone producer Shandong Lihuayi on 20 June began a trial run at its new bisphenol A (BPA) plant, as scheduled, a company source said. The plant, located at Dongying in China’s Shandong province, will have the capacity to produce 120,000 tonnes/year of BPA. The producer expects to attain on-spec BPA output around mid-July, the source added. Shandong Lihuayi’s integrated upstream phenol/acetone plant can produce 220,000 tonnes/year of phenol and 130,000 tonnes/year of acetone.
Shen Hua shuts Nantong SBR ON poor margins

China’s Shen Hua Chemicals has shut its 180,000 tonne/year styrene butadiene rubber (SBR) plant in Nantong for a three-week maintenance from 23 June, a company source said. “We brought forward the maintenance schedule of the SBR plant because of weak demand and high feedstock butadiene (BD) costs, which have squeezed our margins,” the source said. The plant was originally scheduled to undergo turnaround in October-November.
Two months off line for China’s Dynamic BG unit

Chinese producer Dynamic (Nanjing) Chemical Industry’s butyl glycol (BG) unit at Nanjing in Jiangsu province is likely to be off line for at least two months following a fire, a company sources said. The plant, which has a combined BG and butyl di-glycol (BdG) capacity of 80,000 tonnes/year, was shut down after a fire broke out on 12 June. BG, derived from EO and n-butanol (NBA), is also known as ethylene glycol ethers (EGE).
middle east & africa
Sadara JV 94% complete, PE to begin in late 2015

Construction at Dow Chemical’s Saudi Arabian Sadara petrochemicals joint venture with Saudi Aramco is now 94% complete, the US-based chemicals firm said on 23 June. The commissioning and startup of utilities infrastructure at the new petrochemicals complex in Jubail Industrial City II is under way, “and the process for first production units will begin in the second half of the year, with initial polyethylene (PE) production beginning near the end of 2015,” Dow said. Full site operations remain on track for the end of
2016.
CORRECTIONS

The table “Global New passenger Vehicle Registrations in 2015” on page 24 of the 15 June issue has an incomplete list of sources. In our digital edition it has now been corrected to “ACEA, AutoData, CAAM, JAMA, ANFAVEA”. On page 18 of the 22 June issue we inserted the wrong price graph. US epoxy resins has now been replaced with US glycol ethers. Also in the 22 June issue we inserted the wrong price graph on the top story on page 13. The Europe polypropylene (PP) graph has now been replaced with polyethylene (PE).
Brazil’s bank lowers forecasts
CO     rexfts : Rex Features Ltd | rkwrhd : Shutterstock Inc.

IN      i25 : Chemicals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i83953 : Photographic Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iscsv : Specialized Consumer Services
NS     cspin : Demergers | cprdcl : Facility Closures | ncdig : Corporate Digests | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE     braz : Brazil | skorea : South Korea | ustx : Texas | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America | usa : United States | uss : Southern U.S.
IPD    Free reuse - RBI + third parties
PUB   Reed Business Information Limited
AN     Document ACHEN00020150629eb6t00017





Page 47 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      Focus Antitrust - 1 July 2015

BY      Paul Stone WC     869 words PD      6 July 2015
SN      Mondaq Business Briefing
SC      BBPUB
LA      English
CY      (c) 2015 Mondaq Ltd

LP
In The News
Two acquitted in galvanised steel tanks criminal  cartel case

TD
The CMA has announced that two directors, Clive Dean and Nicholas Stringer, have been acquitted of charges under the criminal  cartel offence following a trial at Southwark Crown Court. The acquittals came after a further defendant, Nigel Snee, had already pleaded guilty to the same offence last year. Mr Snee will appear for sentencing at a later date. The announcement states that the CMA accepts that in this case the jury were not persuaded that Mr Stringer and Mr Dean acted dishonestly, and that they should, therefore, be acquitted.  However, the CMA notes that following a change in the law, for conduct
after 1 April 2014, it is no longer necessary for the CMA to prove individuals acted dishonestly in order for the cartel offence to be committed. Click here.

European Commissionfines producers and distributors €115 million for operating retail food                
packaging cartels

The European Commission has fined eight manufacturers and two distributors of  retail food                 packaging trays a total of €115 865 000 for having participated in at least one of five separate cartels. The eight manufacturers are Huhtamäki of Finland, Nespak and Vitembal of France, Silver Plastics of Germany, Coopbox, Magic Pack and Sirap-Gema of Italy and Linpac of the UK. The two distributors are Ovarpack of Portugal and Propack of the UK. The Commission found that the companies fixed prices
and allocated customers of polystyrene foam or polypropylene rigid trays, in breach of Article 101. Polystyrene foam and polypropylene rigid trays are used for  packaging food sold in shops or supermarkets, for products such as cheese, meat, fish or cake. Linpac benefited from full immunity under the Commission's 2006 Leniency Guidelines as it revealed the existence of the cartels to the
Commission.  Click here.
Galvanising merger in West Midlands faces phase 2 investigation unless undertakings offered

The proposed acquisition by Joseph Ash of W Corbett will be referred for an in-depth phase 2 investigation unless acceptable undertakings are offered. The CMA has found that the proposed acquisition may be expected to result in a substantial lessening of competition in the supply of galvanising services in the West Midlands region around the Corbett galvanising plant in Telford. Galvanising is a process used to protect steel from corrosion and is an input for a number of products, including products used in infrastructure projects. Click here.
EU
Articles 101 and 102

The European Commission has sent a statement of objections to suspected participants in a car battery recycling cartel.  The Commission has concerns that, from 2009 to 2012, five lead recycling companies participated in a  cartel aimed at fixing the purchase prices for scrap lead-acid batteries in Belgium, France, Germany and the Netherlands. The Commission alleges in its statement of objections that these companies agreed or coordinated their behaviour only in order to maintain higher profit margins. Click here.

Page 48 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The ECJ has issued its judgment on appeals by Del Monte and the  European Commission in relation to the Commission's decision on the banana importers  cartel.  The ECJ has dismissed Del Monte's appeal. However, it has upheld the Commission's appeal, finding that the General Court was wrong to reduce
Del Monte's  fine, on the basis that responding to an informal information request does not amount to genuine cooperation meriting a reduction in  fine.  Click here.
Mergers

Following a phase 2 investigation the  European Commission has approved under the EU Merger Regulation the proposed acquisition of rotating equipment manufacturer Dresser-Rand of the US by Siemens of Germany. Both companies supply turbo compressors as well as the engines which drive these compressors. Click here.
UK CMA
The CMA has closed its investigation into an alleged abuse of dominance in the pharmaceutical sector on the grounds of administrative priority. The investigation concerned discounts and rebates granted by a dominant company and the CMA has sent a warning letter to the party to the investigation identifying potential concerns that may arise in this context. The party has not been identified. Click here.

The CMA has published an update on its investigation into suspected breaches of competition law in the hotel online booking sector. The CMA has noted the announcement by Booking.com BV that from 1 July
2015 it will abandon its price, availability and booking conditions parity provisions with respect to other online travel agencies in its terms with all accommodation partners across Europe, including in the UK. The update states that this is a significant development, which the CMA is considering closely. Click here.

The CMA is considering undertakings offered by Müller to address competition concerns in relation to its acquisition of Dairy Crest's dairy operations. Click here.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.
Mr Paul Stone
Charles Russell Speechlys LLP
5 Fleet Place London EC4M 7RD UK
Tel: 2072035000
Fax: 2072030200
E-mail: daryl.atkinson@crsblaw.com URL: www.charlesrussellspeechlys.com Click Here for related articles
(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2015 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 -  http://www.mondaq.com

NS      ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gorgnz : Organized Crime | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE      uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD     Corporate/Commercial Law
PUB   Mondaq Limited
AN      Document BBPUB00020150706eb76000mf

Page 49 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Press Release: Huhtamaki: Huhtamäki  Oyj's Interim Report January 1 - June 30, 2015: Profitability improvement continued
WC       2,401 words
PD        24 July 2015
ET        07:30 AM
SN        Dow Jones Institutional News
SC        DJDN
LA        English
CY        Copyright © 2015, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

TD
HUHTAMÄKI OYJ INTERIM REPORT 24.7.2015 AT 8:30

Huhtamäki Oyj's Interim Report January 1 - June 30, 2015: Profitability improvement continued

Q2 2015 in brief


-- Net sales were EUR 714 million (EUR 579 million)


-- EBIT excluding non-recurring items (NRI) was EUR 70 million (EUR 51 million)


-- EPS excluding NRI was EUR 0.52 (EUR 0.34)


-- Comparable net sales growth was 1% in total and 5% in emerging markets


-- Currency movements had a positive impact of EUR 67 million on the
Group's
net sales, and EUR 6 million on EBIT

-- The European  Commission imposed a fine of EUR 15.6 million on Huhtamaki based on infringements of EU's competition regulation in 2002-2006.
Huhtamaki has examined the Commission's decision and has decided to launch an appeal.


H1 2015 in brief


-- Net sales were EUR 1,344 million (EUR 1,093 million)


-- EBIT excluding NRI was EUR 119 million (EUR 89 million)


-- EPS excluding NRI was EUR 0.85 (EUR 0.59)


-- Comparable net sales growth was 3% in total and 5% in emerging markets

Page 50 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.

-- Currency movements had a positive impact of EUR 120 million on the
Group's net sales, and EUR 10 million on EBIT


-- Acquisition of Positive Packaging, a flexible packaging company operating
in India, United Arab Emirates and Africa, was closed at the end of January and the business was consolidated into the Flexible Packaging business segment as of February 1, 2015


Key figures




Q2   Q2
EUR million   2015   2014   Change  H1 2015  H1 2014 Change FY 2014
Net sales     713.6  578.9     23%  1,343.7  1,092.5    23% 2,235.7
EBITDA*        96.2   71.5     35%    171.0    130.2    31%   259.0
EBITDA
margin*      13.5%  12.4%            12.7%    11.9%           11.6% EBIT*          69.7   51.0     37%    119.4     89.4    34%   174.9
EBIT margin*   9.8%   8.8%             8.9%     8.2%            7.8% EPS*, EUR      0.52   0.34     53%     0.85     0.59    44%    1.24
ROI**                                 13.4%    12.3%           12.6% ROE**                                 17.5%    16.6%           16.1% Capital
expenditure   36.9   23.6     56%     61.6     45.6    35%   127.0
Free cash
flow          30.4    7.1    328%     11.0     -4.2   362%    64.6

Including discontinued operations
EPS**, EUR     0.52   0.37     41%     0.85     0.64    33%    1.28
EPS, reported,
EUR           0.32   0.37    -14%     0.61     0.64    -5%    1.33


* Excluding NRI of EUR -18.5 million in Q2 2015 and EUR -22.6 million in
H1 2015.

** Excluding NRI of EUR -19.8 million in Q2 2015, EUR -23.9 million in
H1 2015 and EUR 5.1 million in FY 2014.

Unless otherwise stated, all figures presented in this report, including corresponding periods in 2014, cover continuing operations only.
Continuing operations include the Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania, North America, Flexible Packaging and Molded Fiber business segments. Discontinued operations for 2014 and 2015 include the Films business segment, which was sold at the end of December 2014. Unless otherwise stated, all comparisons in this report are compared to the corresponding period in 2014. ROI, ROE and RONA figures presented in this report are calculated on a 12-month rolling basis.

Jukka Moisio, CEO:

"We remain satisfied with the continued strong profitability improvement as we recorded the highest ever second quarter results. The
profitability improvement was strongly driven by the North America segment that executed planned actions to bring its operating profitability to a more normalized level. Also the Flexible Packaging
Page 51 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
segment achieved a solid profitability improvement helped by the
Positive Packaging business that performed according to our expectations in the second quarter. We are five months into the acquisition and will continue to execute our business plan to achieve the targeted synergies.

The comparable net sales growth was more subdued in this quarter. As part of the profit normalization actions, the North America segment discontinued low profitability products, bringing its comparable net sales development temporarily to negative territory. Prices for plastic resins reached their low point during the first quarter and due to lag effect in net selling prices, the lower raw material prices of the first quarter resulted in lower selling prices and reduced comparable growth
in the second quarter. This concerns especially the Flexible Packaging segment, which is the primary user of plastic raw materials in the Group. The resin prices have increased significantly in the second quarter and we expect the topline impact to even out during coming quarters.

Our key markets of Southeast Asia, North America, and Europe are expected to offer good growth opportunities going forward. Main softness in emerging markets is in China and although the growth has slowed down in Eastern Europe it still remains at a good level. In summary, we are reasonably optimistic about net sales development during the second half of 2015 and we should see good contributions both from organic growth actions as well as our recent acquisitions.

At the end of June, the European  Commission gave its decision on the cartel case related to our former rigid plastic consumer goods business in Europe, and  imposed a EUR 16 million fine on Huhtamaki. After having studied the Commission's decision we've decided to launch an appeal. We do not tolerate unethical behavior and continue to do our utmost to prevent it from happening."

Financial review Q2 2015

The Group's comparable net sales growth was 1% during the quarter. Stable growth in Molded Fiber, Flexible Packaging and Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania business segments continued. The North America business segment's reported net sales grew, whereas in constant currencies net sales development was negatively affected by the segment's successful focus on actions to normalize its margins. Comparable growth in emerging markets was 5%. Good net sales growth in
South America, Russia and Southeast Asia continued. Net sales grew also in India, but declined in China. The Group's net sales grew to EUR 714 million (EUR 579 million). There was a significant positive impact on net sales from the Positive Packaging acquisition as well as foreign currency translation, which was EUR 67 million compared to the 2014 exchange rates. Majority of the currency impact came from the strengthening of the US dollar versus euro.

Net sales by business segment




EUR million                      Q2 2015  Q2 2014 Change Of Group in Q2
2015
Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania    175.4    162.7     8%
24%
North America                      252.5    208.3    21%
35%
Flexible Packaging                 224.8    152.1    48%
32%
Molded Fiber                        66.2     61.8     7%
9%
Elimination of internal sales       -5.3     -6.0
Page 52 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Group                              713.6    578.9    23% Comparable growth by business segment


Q2 2015 Q1 2015  Q4 2014  Q3 2014
Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania        2%       3%      2%      4% North America                         -2%       7%      5%      4% Flexible Packaging                     4%       5%     12%      6% Molded Fiber                           5%       5%      7%      9% Group                                  1%       5%      6%      5%


The Group's earnings development was solid. Strong earnings growth in the North America business segment continued. In addition, earnings
growth was good in the Flexible Packaging business segment with a significant positive contribution from Positive Packaging. The Group's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) were EUR 70 million, excluding NRI of EUR -19 million (EUR 51 million). Positive foreign currency translation impact on Group's EBIT was EUR 6 million.

EBIT by business segment




EUR million                      Q2 2015  Q2 2014 Change Of Group in Q2
2015
Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania     16.4     17.4    -6%
23%
North America                       26.2     13.2    98%
38%
Flexible Packaging                  17.8     11.3    58%
26%
Molded Fiber                         9.0     10.0   -10%
13%
Other activities                     0.3     -0.9
Group                               69.7     51.0    37%

Other activities EBIT excluding NRI of EUR -18.5 million in Q2 2015. Net financial expenses increased to EUR 9 million (EUR 7 million). Tax
expense was EUR 7 million (EUR 8 million).

Profit for the period was EUR 36 million, including NRI of EUR -19 million (EUR 37 million). The NRI is related to the fine of EUR 16 million imposed on Huhtamaki by the European Commission based on infringements of EU's competition regulation in 2002-2006 as well as legal costs of EUR 3 million related to the investigation and the appeal process.

Earnings per share (EPS) excluding NRI were EUR 0.52 (EUR 0.34). Reported EPS were EUR 0.33 (EUR 0.34) and EUR 0.32 (EUR 0.37) including discontinued operations.

Financial review H1 2015

The Group's comparable net sales growth was 3% during the period. All business segments contributed to the net sales growth. Comparable growth in emerging markets was 5%. The growth in emerging markets was driven by continued good development in Russia, Southeast Asia and South America, whereas negative net sales development in China continued. The Group's
Page 53 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
net sales grew to EUR 1,344 million (EUR 1,093 million). In addition to organic growth, there was a significant positive impact on net sales from the Positive Packaging acquisition as well as the foreign currency
24 Jul 2015 01:30 ET Press Release: Huhtamaki: Huhtamäki Oyj's Interim -2-


translation, which was EUR 120 million compared to the 2014 exchange rates. The majority of the currency impact came from the strengthening of the US dollar versus euro.

Net sales by business segment




EUR million                      H1 2015  H1 2014 Change Of Group in H1
2015
Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania    329.3    304.7     8%
24%
North America                      463.2    372.5    24%
34% Flexible
Packaging                 430.8    302.9     42%                 32% Molded Fiber                       131.4    123.3     7%
10%
Elimination of internal sales      -11.0    -10.9
Group                            1,343.7  1,092.5    23%


The Group's earnings development was good. Earnings improvement was strongest in the North America business segment. The Group's EBIT were EUR 119 million, excluding NRI of EUR -23 million (EUR 89 million). Positive Packaging also contributed positively to earnings. Positive foreign currency translation impact on Group's EBIT was EUR 10 million.

EBIT by business segment




EUR million                      H1 2015  H1 2014 Change Of Group in H1
2015
Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania     28.3     28.4     0%
23%
North America                       40.0     22.0    82%
33%
Flexible Packaging                  34.8     22.3    56%
29%
Molded Fiber                        17.6     17.6     0%
15%
Other activities                    -1.3     -0.9
Group                              119.4     89.4    34%


Other activities EBIT excluding NRI of EUR -22.6 million in H1 2015.

Net financial expenses increased to EUR 18 million (EUR 14 million). The payment of purchase price for Positive Packaging led to a higher amount
of net debt and thus higher financial expenses. Tax expense was EUR 13 million (EUR 13 million). The corresponding tax rate was 16% (16%).

Profit for the period was EUR 67 million, including NRI of EUR -23 million (EUR 63 million). EPS excluding NRI were EUR 0.85 (EUR 0.59). Reported EPS were EUR 0.62 (EUR 0.59) and EUR 0.61 (EUR 0.64) including discontinued operations.

Page 54 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Significant events during the reporting period

On June 24, 2015 the European  Commission announced the outcome of its investigations on anticompetitive behavior in the markets of plastic trays used for retail packaging. Huhtamäki Oyj had received in
September 2012 the European Commission's statement of objections concerning alleged anticompetitive behavior in the markets of plastic trays used for retail packaging of fresh food during years 2000-2008. The European Commission found certain of Huhtamaki's former operations to have been involved in anticompetitive practices. The concerned operations are no longer part of Huhtamaki as they were part of the Group's rigid consumer goods business in Europe that was closed down or divested in years 2006 and 2010. Based on infringements in North-West
Europe and France during years 2002-2006 the European  Commission imposed a EUR 16 million fine on Huhtamaki. The fine and legal costs of EUR 3 million related to the investigation and the appeal process are recognized as a non-recurring expense in the Group's Q2 2015 result. Huhtamaki has examined the European  Commission's decision and has
decided to launch an appeal against the decision before the General
Court of the European Union.

Outlook for 2015

The Group's trading conditions are expected to remain relatively stable during 2015. The good financial position and ability to generate a
positive cash flow will enable the Group to continue to address profitable growth opportunities. Capital expenditure is expected to be at the same level as in 2014. Majority of the investments are expected to be directed to enhance growth in the emerging markets.

Financial reporting in 2015

Huhtamaki will publish the following interim report during the course of the year:

Interim Report January 1 - September 30, 2015              October 22,
2015

This is a summary of Huhtamäki Oyj's Interim Report January 1 - June 30, 2015. The complete report is attached to this release and is also available at the company website at www.huhtamaki.com.

For further information, please contact: Jukka Moisio, CEO, tel. +358 10 686 7801
Thomas Geust, CFO, tel. +358 686 7880

HUHTAMÄKI OYJ

Group Communications

Huhtamaki is a global specialist in packaging for food and drink. With our network of 69 manufacturing units and 23 sales offices in 34 countries, we're well placed to support our customers' growth wherever they operate. Mastering three distinctive packaging technologies, approximately 16,500 employees develop and make packaging that helps
great products reach more people, more easily. In 2014 our net sales totaled EUR 2.2 billion. The Group has its head office in Espoo, Finland and the parent company Huhtamäki Oyj is listed on NASDAQ OMX
Helsinki Ltd. Additional information is available at www.huhtamaki.com.

Huhtamäki Oyj Interim Report January 1- June 30, 2015:
http://hugin.info/3006/R/1940953/701204.pdf

This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on
Page 55 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
behalf of NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions clients.

The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.

Source: Huhtamäki Oyj via Globenewswire

HUG#1940953


http://www.huhtamaki.com
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
July 24, 2015 01:30 ET (05:30 GMT)
CO       hutmak : Huhtamaeki Oyj | eucmm : European Commission
IN         iindstrls : Industrial Goods | ipap : Packaging | i472 : Converted Paper Products | icnp : Consumer
Goods
NS        c151 : Earnings | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | m11 : Equity Markets | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npress : Press Releases | c15 : Financial Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE        eurz : Europe
PUB     Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN        Document DJDN000020150724eb7o000g8







































Page 56 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     Huhtamaki  to appeal fine for cartel pricing
WC     238 words
PD      24 July 2015
ET      11:43 AM
SN      Agence France Presse
SC      AFPR
LA      English
CY      Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2015 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.

LP
Finnish packing company Huhtamaki will launch an appeal of a European Commissionfine for cartel
pricing, the company announced on Friday.

"Based on infringements in North-West Europe and France during years 2002-2006 the  European           Commission has imposed a 15.6 million euro ($17.1 million)  fine on Huhtamaki. Huhtamaki has examined the European Commission's decision and decided to launch an appeal against the decision before the General Court of the European Union," the company wrote in a statement.

TD
The European Commission in June levied a total of 115,9 million euros in fines for alleged cartel activity against eight manufacturers and two distributors of plastic trays used for retail food packaging, including Huhtamaki.

The Commission found the companies agreed to fix the price of  food packaging made of polystyrene foam or polypropylene, in violation of EU competition regulations.

The other seven penalised manufacturers were Nespak and Vitembal of France, Germany's Silver Plastics, Coopbox, Magic Pack and Sirap-Gema of Italy and Linpac in the UK. The two distributors concerned were Portugal's Overpack and UK group Propack.
The British manufacturer Linpac was spared  fines, as it was the first to unveil the  cartel to the
Commission.

Espoo-based Huhtamaki said the contested operations are no longer part of the company following their closure or sale between 2006 and 2010.
ank/cbw/bc

CO     eucmm : European Commission
NS      c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE      fin : Finland | helsnk : Helsinki | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic
Countries
IPD     Finland
PUB   Agence France-Presse
AN      Document AFPR000020150724eb7o00566










Page 57 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      Huhtamäki  Oyj's Interim Report January 1 - June 30, 2015: Profitability improvement continued
WC     2,367 words
PD      24 July 2015
ET      08:30 AM
SN      Nasdaq / Globenewswire
SC      HUGNEN
LA       English
CY      © 2015, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LP
HUHTAMÄKI OYJ INTERIM REPORT 24.7.2015 AT 8:30
Huhtamäki Oyj's Interim Report January 1 - June 30, 2015: Profitability improvement continued

TD
Q2 2015 in brief
* Net sales were EUR 714 million (EUR 579 million)
* EBIT excluding non-recurring items (NRI) was EUR 70 million (EUR 51 million)
* EPS excluding NRI was EUR 0.52 (EUR 0.34)
* Comparable net sales growth was 1% in total and 5% in emerging markets

* Currency movements had a positive impact of EUR 67 million on the Group's net sales, and EUR 6 million on EBIT

* The European Commission imposed a fine of EUR 15.6 million on Huhtamaki based on infringements of EU's competition regulation in 2002-2006. Huhtamaki has examined the Commission's decision and has decided to launch an appeal.
H1 2015 in brief
* Net sales were EUR 1,344 million (EUR 1,093 million)
* EBIT excluding NRI was EUR 119 million (EUR 89 million)
* EPS excluding NRI was EUR 0.85 (EUR 0.59)
* Comparable net sales growth was 3% in total and 5% in emerging markets

* Currency movements had a positive impact of EUR 120 million on the Group's net sales, and EUR 10 million on EBIT

* Acquisition of Positive  Packaging,  a flexible  packaging company operating in India, United Arab Emirates and Africa, was closed at the end of January and the business was consolidated into the Flexible Packaging  business segment as of February 1, 2015
Key figures

EUR million                          Q2 2015    Q2 2014   Change   H1
2015    H1 2014    Change    FY 2014
Net sales                            713.6      578.9     23%
1,343.7   1,092.5    23%       2,235.7
EBITDA*                              96.2       71.5      35%      171.0
130.2     31%       259.0

Page 58 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
EBITDA margin*                       13.5%      12.4%               12.7%
11.9%                11.6%
EBIT*                                69.7       51.0      37%      119.4
89.4       34%       174.9
EBIT margin*                         9.8%       8.8%                8.9%
8.2%                 7.8%
EPS*, EUR                            0.52       0.34      53%      0.85
0.59       44%       1.24
ROI**                                                               13.4%
12.3%                12.6%
ROE**                                                               17.5%
16.6%                16.1%
Capital expenditure                  36.9       23.6      56%      61.6
45.6       35%       127.0
Free cash flow                       30.4       7.1       328%     11.0
-4.2       362%      64.6


Including discontinued operations

EPS**, EUR                           0.52       0.37      41%      0.85
0.64       33%       1.28
EPS, reported, EUR                   0.32       0.37      -14%     0.61
0.64       -5%       1.33



* Excluding NRI of EUR -18.5 million in Q2 2015 and EUR -22.6 million in H1 2015.
** Excluding NRI of EUR -19.8 million in Q2 2015, EUR -23.9 million in H1 2015 and EUR 5.1 million in
FY 2014.

Unless otherwise stated, all figures presented in this report, including corresponding periods in 2014, cover continuing operations only. Continuing operations include the Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania, North America, Flexible  Packaging  and Molded Fiber business segments. Discontinued operations for
2014 and 2015 include the Films business segment, which was sold at the end of December 2014.
Unless otherwise stated, all comparisons in this report are compared to the corresponding period in 2014.
ROI, ROE and RONA figures presented in this report are calculated on a 12-month rolling basis.
Jukka Moisio, CEO:

"We remain satisfied with the continued strong profitability improvement as we recorded the highest ever second quarter results. The profitability improvement was strongly driven by the North America segment that executed planned actions to bring its operating profitability to a more normalized level. Also the Flexible Packaging  segment achieved a solid profitability improvement helped by the Positive  Packaging business that performed according to our expectations in the second quarter. We are five months into the acquisition and will continue to execute our business plan to achieve the targeted synergies.

The comparable net sales growth was more subdued in this quarter. As part of the profit normalization actions, the North America segment discontinued low profitability products, bringing its comparable net sales development temporarily to negative territory. Prices for plastic resins reached their low point during the first quarter and due to lag effect in net selling prices, the lower raw material prices of the first quarter resulted in lower selling prices and reduced comparable growth in the second quarter. This concerns especially the Flexible  Packaging  segment, which is the primary user of plastic raw materials in the Group. The resin prices have increased significantly in the second quarter and we expect the topline impact to even out during coming quarters.

Our key markets of Southeast Asia, North America, and Europe are expected to offer good growth opportunities going forward. Main softness in emerging markets is in China and although the growth has slowed down in Eastern Europe it still remains at a good level. In summary, we are reasonably optimistic about net sales development during the second half of 2015 and we should see good contributions both from organic growth actions as well as our recent acquisitions.

At the end of June, the  European Commission gave its decision on the  cartel case related to our former rigid plastic consumer goods business in Europe, and imposed a EUR 16 million  fine on Huhtamaki.
After having studied the Commission's decision we've decided to launch an appeal. We do not tolerate unethical behavior and continue to do our utmost to prevent it from happening."
Page 59 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Financial review Q2 2015

The Group's comparable net sales growth was 1% during the quarter. Stable growth in Molded Fiber, Flexible Packaging  and Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania business segments continued. The North America business segment's reported net sales grew, whereas in constant currencies net sales development was negatively affected by the segment's successful focus on actions to normalize its margins. Comparable growth in emerging markets was 5%. Good net sales growth in South America, Russia and Southeast Asia continued. Net sales grew also in India, but declined in China. The Group's
net sales grew to EUR 714 million (EUR 579 million). There was a significant positive impact on net sales from the Positive  Packaging  acquisition as well as foreign currency translation, which was EUR 67
million compared to the 2014 exchange rates. Majority of the currency impact came from the strengthening of the US dollar versus euro.
Net sales by business segment

EUR million                        Q2 2015    Q2 2014   Change   Of Group in Q2 2015
Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania    175.4      162.7     8%       24% North America                      252.5      208.3     21%      35% Flexible
Packaging                 224.8      152.1      48%      32%
Molded Fiber                       66.2       61.8      7%       9% Elimination of internal sales      -5.3       -6.0
Group                              713.6      578.9     23%

Comparable growth by business segment

Q2 2015   Q1 2015    Q4 2014    Q3 2014

Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania    2%         3%        2%        4% North America                      -2%        7%        5%        4% Flexible
Packaging                 4%         5%         12%       6%
Molded Fiber                       5%         5%        7%        9% Group                              1%         5%        6%        5%

The Group's earnings development was solid. Strong earnings growth in the North America business segment continued. In addition, earnings growth was good in the Flexible  Packaging  business segment with a significant positive contribution from Positive  Packaging.  The Group's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) were EUR 70 million, excluding NRI of EUR -19 million (EUR 51 million). Positive foreign currency translation impact on Group's EBIT was EUR 6 million.
EBIT by business segment

EUR million                        Q2 2015    Q2 2014   Change   Of Group in Q2 2015
Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania    16.4       17.4      -6%      23% North America                      26.2       13.2      98%      38% Flexible
Packaging                 17.8       11.3       58%      26%
Molded Fiber                       9.0        10.0      -10%     13% Other activities                   0.3        -0.9
Group                              69.7       51.0      37%

Other activities EBIT excluding NRI of EUR -18.5 million in Q2 2015.
Net financial expenses increased to EUR 9 million (EUR 7 million). Tax expense was EUR 7 million (EUR
8 million).

Profit for the period was EUR 36 million, including NRI of EUR -19 million (EUR 37 million). The NRI is related to the  fine of EUR 16 million imposed on Huhtamaki by the  European Commission based on infringements of EU's competition regulation in 2002-2006 as well as legal costs of EUR 3 million related to the investigation and the appeal process.

Earnings per share (EPS) excluding NRI were EUR 0.52 (EUR 0.34). Reported EPS were EUR 0.33 (EUR 0.34) and EUR 0.32 (EUR 0.37) including discontinued operations.


Page 60 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Financial review H1 2015

The Group's comparable net sales growth was 3% during the period. All business segments contributed to the net sales growth. Comparable growth in emerging markets was 5%. The growth in emerging markets was driven by continued good development in Russia, Southeast Asia and South America, whereas negative net sales development in China continued. The Group's net sales grew to EUR 1,344 million (EUR 1,093 million). In addition to organic growth, there was a significant positive impact on net sales from the Positive  Packaging  acquisition as well as the foreign currency translation, which was EUR
120 million compared to the 2014 exchange rates. The majority of the currency impact came from the strengthening of the US dollar versus euro.
Net sales by business segment

EUR million                        H1 2015    H1 2014   Change   Of Group in H1 2015
Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania    329.3      304.7     8%       24% North America                      463.2      372.5     24%      34% Flexible
Packaging                 430.8      302.9      42%      32%
Molded Fiber                       131.4      123.3     7%       10% Elimination of internal sales      -11.0      -10.9
Group                              1,343.7    1,092.5   23%

The Group's earnings development was good. Earnings improvement was strongest in the North America business segment. The Group's EBIT were EUR 119 million, excluding NRI of EUR -23 million (EUR 89 million). Positive  Packaging  also contributed positively to earnings. Positive foreign currency translation impact on Group's EBIT was EUR 10 million.
EBIT by business segment

EUR million                        H1 2015    H1 2014   Change   Of Group in H1 2015
Foodservice Europe-Asia-Oceania    28.3       28.4      0%       23% North America                      40.0       22.0      82%      33% Flexible
Packaging                 34.8       22.3       56%      29%
Molded Fiber                       17.6       17.6      0%       15% Other activities                   -1.3       -0.9
Group                              119.4      89.4      34%

Other activities EBIT excluding NRI of EUR -22.6 million in H1 2015.

Net financial expenses increased to EUR 18 million (EUR 14 million). The payment of purchase price for Positive  Packaging  led to a higher amount of net debt and thus higher financial expenses. Tax expense was EUR 13 million (EUR 13 million). The corresponding tax rate was 16% (16%).

Profit for the period was EUR 67 million, including NRI of EUR -23 million (EUR 63 million). EPS excluding NRI were EUR 0.85 (EUR 0.59). Reported EPS were EUR 0.62 (EUR 0.59) and EUR 0.61 (EUR 0.64) including discontinued operations.
Significant events during the reporting period

On June 24, 2015 the  European Commission announced the outcome of its investigations on anticompetitive behavior in the markets of plastic trays used for  retail packaging. Huhtamäki Oyj had received in September 2012 the  European Commission's statement of objections concerning alleged anticompetitive behavior in the markets of plastic trays used for  retail packaging of fresh food during years 2000-2008. The  European Commission found certain of Huhtamaki's former operations to have been involved in anticompetitive practices. The concerned operations are no longer part of Huhtamaki as they were part of the Group's rigid consumer goods business in Europe that was closed down or divested in years 2006 and 2010. Based on infringements in North-West Europe and France during years
2002-2006 the European Commission imposed a EUR 16 million  fine on Huhtamaki. The  fine and legal costs of EUR 3 million related to the investigation and the appeal process are recognized as a
non-recurring expense in the Group's Q2 2015 result. Huhtamaki has examined the  European                 Commission's decision and has decided to launch an appeal against the decision before the General Court of the European Union.
Outlook for 2015

Page 61 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The Group's trading conditions are expected to remain relatively stable during 2015. The good financial position and ability to generate a positive cash flow will enable the Group to continue to address profitable growth opportunities. Capital expenditure is expected to be at the same level as in 2014. Majority of the investments are expected to be directed to enhance growth in the emerging markets.
Financial reporting in 2015
Huhtamaki will publish the following interim report during the course of the year: Interim Report January 1 - September 30, 2015              October 22, 2015
This is a summary of Huhtamäki Oyj's Interim Report January 1 - June 30, 2015. The complete report is attached to this release and is also available at the company website at  www.huhtamaki.com.
For further information, please contact: Jukka Moisio, CEO, tel. +358 10 686 7801
Thomas Geust, CFO, tel. +358 686 7880
HUHTAMÄKI OYJ Group Communications
Huhtamaki is a global specialist in  packaging for food and drink. With our network of 69 manufacturing units and 23 sales offices in 34 countries, we're well placed to support our customers' growth wherever they operate. Mastering three distinctive  packaging technologies, approximately 16,500 employees develop and make packaging that helps great products reach more people, more easily. In 2014 our net sales totaled EUR 2.2 billion. The Group has its head office in Espoo, Finland and the parent company Huhtamäki Oyj is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. Additional information is available at www.huhtamaki.com.

Huhtamäki Oyj Interim Report January 1- June 30, 2015

This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions clients.

The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.
Source: Huhtamäki Oyj via Globenewswire
HUG#1940953

CT
CO      hutmak : Huhtamaeki Oyj
IN       i472 : Converted Paper Products | icnp : Consumer Goods
NS      npress : Press Releases | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
RE      fin : Finland | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries
IPD     Industrials
PUB    NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions International Limited
AN      Document HUGNEN0020150724eb7o000e0

Search Summary

Text                                 ("european commission" or "Eu commission") and fine* and (cartel) and packaging not celex* not interfax and (food or retail)
Date                                24/05/2015 to 24/07/2015
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies
Page 62 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Subject                           All Subjects
Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                17
Timestamp                      12 April 2019 8:05 PM






























































Page 63 of 63 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
