




Sasol Slams $318 Million Anti-Trust Fine on Wax ' Cartel '...................................................................................... 2
WAX CARTEL FINES : COMMISSION FINES NINE COMPANIES OVER PARAFFIN WAX CARTEL.................. 4
EU & Competition Law News - 8 October, 2008 ...................................................................................................... 6
Global Antitrust & Trade Regulation Update - October 2008 ................................................................................... 8
Sasol Limited - Company News ............................................................................................................................. 12
Sasol hit with huge anti-competition fine ................................................................................................................ 14























































Page 1 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD             Sasol Slams $318 Million  Anti-Trust Fine on Wax 'Cartel' BY              Jack Peckham
WC            447 words
PD             15 October 2008
SN             Gasification News
SC             GTLN
VOL           Volume XI, Number 20
LA              English
CY             (c) 2008 Hart Energy Publishing, LP. All Rights Reserved.

LP
Sasol on October 1 blasted a European Commission ruling finding that it and others are guilty of
price fixing  on paraffin wax sales in Europe.
If upheld after an appeal, Sasol would face paying a staggering (Euro) 318 million fine.

TD
"As anticipated in several previous announcements made by Sasol Limited, the European Union found that members of the  European paraffin wax industry, including Sasol Wax GmbH, formed a cartel and violated antitrust laws," Sasol said of the ruling.

The Euro 318 million fine hits Sasol  Wax GmbH (of which Sasol  Wax International AG, Sasol Holding in Germany GmbH and Sasol Limited would be jointly and severally be liable for EUR 250 million), Sasol said. The  fine is payable within three months.
"As a result of Sasol's co-operation and support in the investigations, the  European Commission
reduced the base amount of the  fine by 50% to the net amount stated above," Sasol said.

"Sasol is surprised by and does not understand the reasons for the magnitude of this  fine and will be studying the reasons for the finding with a view to lodge an appeal against it.

"According to the statement of objections of the  European Commission an infringement of antitrust laws commenced in 1992 or even earlier. In 1995 Sasol became a co-shareholder in an existing  wax business located in Hamburg, Germany owned by the Schümann group.

"In July 2002 Sasol acquired the remaining shares in the joint venture and became the sole shareholder of the business. Sasol Limited was unaware of these infringements before the European Commission commenced their investigation at the  wax business in Hamburg in April
2005."

As Sasol CEO Pat Davies explained, the alleged  price-fixing apparently was the result of “past actions of but a few former employees.

“Sasol’s management, including the Sasol directors of the Schumann-Sasol joint venture, was totally unaware of these activities. When we became aware of them in 2005, they were immediately
stopped and Sasol promptly began cooperating with the  European Commission’s (EC)
investigation.

“These cartel activities were clearly reprehensible and constituted a flagrant breach of Sasol’s policies and values. By their very nature, these activities are secretive and very difficult to detect.

“While a fine was expected, we didn’t anticipate the magnitude of the  fine, particularly in the light of, amongst other factors, not being the legacy owner. We do not yet have the detailed reasoning from the EC and will study it, as soon as it is supplied, to clarify our next steps. As we see things now, it is our intention to appeal.” -- Jack Peckham

CO             ssol : Sasol Ltd

Page 2 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
IN               i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
NS             eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE             gfr : Germany | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD            Sasol Slams $318 Million Anti-Trust Fine on Wax 'Cartel'
PUB           Hart Energy Publishing, LP
AN             Document GTLN000020081015e4af00015


























































Page 3 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       WAX CARTEL FINES : COMMISSION FINES NINE COMPANIES OVER PARAFFIN WAX CARTEL WC     435 words
PD      16 October 2008
SN      Europolitics Environment
SC      ENVE
VOL    0754
LA      English
CY      Copyright 2008 Europe Information Service All Rights Reserved

LP
The European Commission announced, on 1 October, that it had  fined nine paraffin wax producers a total of €676 million for sharing the  European market and fixing prices for 13 years.

For the two biggest  fines, Sasol (Germany, South Africa) will have to pay €318.2 million and the French company Total €128.1 million. Then ENI (Italy) will have to pay €29.1 million; the American company ExxonMobil €83.5 million; German companies Hansen & Rosenthal €24 million; Tudapetrol €12 million; RWE €37.4 million; the Hungarian company MOL €23.7 million and the Spanish company Repsol €19.8 million.

TD
Paraffin waxes are used in products such as candles,  waxed paper, paper cups and plates, the  wax coating on cheese, chemicals, tyres and car components as well as in the rubber, packaging, adhesive and chewing gum industries. The  European market is worth almost €500 million.

A tenth company involved in the  cartel, Shell (UK-Netherlands), was exempted from paying any  fine as it was the first to report the  cartel to the EU executive. "Shell and its shareholders did the right thing," commented the EU's Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes, in the knowledge that, if it had not
reported the  cartel, the petrol giant would have had to settle a bill for €96 million. Reduced fines were granted to Sasol, Repsol and ExxonMobil. These three groups benefit from a reduction of their fine of
50%, 25% and 7%, respectively, for having cooperated in the  Commission's investigation, as set out in its leniency programme adopted in 2002.

The meetings between the incriminated parties took place at a series of top hotels all over  Europe, including Milan, Vienna, Budapest, Paris, Munich and Strasbourg. The infringements committed by ExxonMobil, Sasol, Shell, RWE and Total also concerned slack  wax - a raw material used in the production of  paraffin wax - sold to end-customers on the German market.
In the Shell group, the  cartel was called the paraffin  mafia'. This illegal  cartel prospered from 1992 to
2005. It was also called Blauer Salon' (blue saloon) in the Sasol group, after a hotel bar in Germany
where the first meetings of the  cartel took place.

The fine will take fourth place among the highest financial sanctions inflicted by the  Commission against corporate cartels, after elevators (€992.3 million in 2007), vitamins (€790.5 million in 2001) and
switchgear (€750.5 million in 2007). Kroes toughened the rules in 2006 to sanction cartels more heavily, by taking better account of the duration of the  cartel and repeat offences.

RF      23515420081016
CO     exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
IN       i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction
NS      eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE      gfr : Germany | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
PUB   Europe Information Service SA

Page 4 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
AN      Document ENVE000020081020e4ag00007






































































Page 5 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD    EU & Competition Law News - 8 October, 2008
WC    1,326 words
PD     19 October 2008
SN     Mondaq Business Briefing
SC     BBPUB
LA     English
CY     (c) 2008 Mondaq Ltd

LP
In this issue:
Competition: Commission fines wax producers EUR 676 million for price fixing and market sharing    
cartel

TD
Competition:  Commission publishes document setting out provisions on international relations in competition policy
Competition:  Commission requests Slovakia to re-open competition in the hybrid mail sector Competition (Sweden): Nordic competition authorities present joint report on the pharmaceutical market Merger control:  Commission clears proposed acquisition of parts of ABN AMRO's assets by Deutsche
Bank
Merger control:  Commission approves modified Alpha Card joint venture between American Express and
Fortis
Merger Control (Sweden): Swedish Competition Authority issues transitional provisions on merger control

Competition: Commission fines wax producers EUR 676 million for  price fixing  and market sharing     cartel The Commission has imposed a total  fine of EUR 676 million on 9 groups – ENI, ExxonMobil, Hansen & Rosenthal, Tudapetrol, MOL, Repsol, Sasol, RWE and Total – for participating in a paraffin
wax cartel in the EEA between 1992 and 2005 in violation of Article 81 of the EC Treaty. Paraffin waxes
are used in a wide range of products such as candles, waxed paper, tires and car components as well as
in the rubber and packaging industries. The Commission found that the companies had fixed prices of the
relevant products and, in addition, ExxonMobil, MOL, Repsol, Sasol, Shell and Total had allocated
markets and customers for  paraffin waxes. According to the  Commission, the companies had held
regular meetings in which they discussed prices, allocated markets and customers and exchanged
sensitive commercial information. Sasol's  fine was increased by 50 % as it was the leader of the cartel.
Further, the  fines for ENI and Shell were increased by 60 % as both companies had been fined for cartel
activities in previous  Commission decisions. Shell, however, received full immunity from fines under the
Commission's Leniency Notice, as it was the first to provide information on the  cartel. Also Sasol, Repsol
and ExxonMobil received a reduction of fines of 50 %, 25 % and 7 % respectively for cooperating with the
Commission's investigation. Source: Commission Press Release 1/10/2008 Competition:  Commission
publishes document setting out provisions on international relations in competition policy The
Commission has published a document comprising the full text of all provisions on international relations
in the area of competition policy included in agreements between the EU and third countries or third
country groupings. It contains, inter alia, the relevant provisions from the EEA Agreement, the bilateral
agreements with candidate member countries, the competition co-operation agreements with e.g. the US
and texts of numerous other bilateral agreements and competition related measures. Source: DG
Competition website (http://ec.europa.eu/comm/competition/international/legislation/legislation.html)
2/10/2008 Competition: Commission requests Slovakia to re-open competition in the hybrid mail sector
The Commission has found that recent amendments to Slovak postal legislation, extending the monopoly
of the incumbent operator Slovenská Poata to the delivery of hybrid mail services, infringe Article 82 EC in
conjunction with Article 86 EC. Hybrid mail is mail which is transferred electronically from the sender to the
postal operator who prints out the postal item and delivers it in paper form. The hybrid mail sector had
been open to competition until the amendment and, consequently, private postal operators that were
Page 6 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
already established in the market are prevented from exercising their activity in the relevant sector and their economic viability is thus endangered. The  Commission concluded that the amendments to the Slovak postal legislation must be revoked. Slovakia now has one month to undertake the necessary measures to ascertain that hybrid mail services remain open to competition. Source:  Commission Press Release 7/10/2008 Competition (Sweden): Nordic competition authorities present joint report on the pharmaceutical market The Nordic competition authorities have presented a joint report on the pharmaceutical market situation. In the report, the competition authorities of Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway present their experiences on various reforms that have taken place in the pharmaceutical market in their respective countries in recent years. In particular, the report describes the competitive outcome of various provisions concerning e.g. market access and pricing. As the pharmaceutical market in Sweden is expected to undergo major changes in 2009 due to the plan to abolish the Swedish state monopoly in the pharmaceutical retail market, the report provides valuable guidelines for the assessment of the proposed reforms in Sweden. Source: The Swedish Competition Authority (www.kkv.se)07/10/2008 Merger control: Commission clears proposed acquisition of parts of ABN AMRO's assets by Deutsche Bank The Commission has cleared the acquisition of certain assets of ABN AMRO, of the Netherlands, by Deutsche Bank, of Germany. Deutsche Bank is active in investment and banking services worldwide. ABN AMRO is a globally active international banking group. The ABN AMRO assets to be acquired by Deutsche Bank include the Hollandsche Bank Unie N.V., two of ABN AMRO's corporate client departments and thirteen of its commercial advisory centres as well as its Dutch factoring subsidiary IFN. The  Commission concluded that the proposed acquisition will not create or strengthen such a dominant market position that would significantly impede effective competition in the EEA or in any substantial part thereof. Source:  Commission Press Release 1/10/2008 Merger control: Commission approves modified Alpha Card joint venture between American Express and Fortis The Commission has cleared the proposed transformation of the existing joint venture Alpha Card S.C.R.L./C.V.B.A ("Alpha Card") into a full-function joint venture between American Express Company ("American Express"), of the US, and Fortis Bank S.A. / N.V. ("Fortis"), of Belgium. Fortis is an
international provider of banking and insurance services to personal, business and institutional customers. American Express is active globally in the markets for payment card issuing, merchant acquiring and travel and insurance services. Most of American Express's payment card issuing and merchant acquiring businesses in Belgium and Luxembourg have been transferred to the Alpha Card joint venture. The Commission concluded that the proposed acquisition will not create or strengthen such a dominant
market position that would significantly impede effective competition in the EEA or in any substantial part thereof. Source:  Commission Press Release 3/10/2008 Merger Control (Sweden): Swedish Competition Authority issues transitional provisions on merger control The Swedish Competition Authority ("SCA") will publish shortly new merger control guidelines on account of the entry into force of the new Swedish Competition Act on 1 November 2008. The guidelines will include transitional provisions concerning the applicability of the old and new merger control rules. The SCA states that the old rules will continue to apply to concentrations that arise prior to 1 November 2008 and the new rules will apply to concentrations arising as of that date. In order to clarify which rules are applied, the SCA notes that a concentration shall be considered to have arisen on the date of (i) signing of the legally binding agreement, (ii) announcement of the public big or (iii) receipt by the SCA of a complete merger notification that indicates the parties' intention to implement the concentration. Source: The Swedish Competition Authority (www.kkv.se)30/09/2008 In addition, kindly note the following merger control decisions by the Commission which are published on the website of the  Commission's Directorate-General for Competition: Commission clears proposed acquisition of Piaggio by Tata, Mubadala and Lochmore Commission clears proposed acquisition of CERP Lorraine Répartition France by Phoenix  Commission clears proposed acquisition of OTE by Deutsche TelekomCommission clears proposed acquisition of Hercules by Ashland The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject
matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances. Roschier, Attorneys Ltd Keskuskatu 7 A Helsinki 00100 FINLAND E-mail: Dimitrios.Himonas@roschier.com URL: www.roschier.com Click Here for related articles(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2008 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com
IN      ibnk : Banking/Credit
NS     eec : European Union | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c34 : Competition Issues | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE     fin : Finland | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | weurz : Western Europe
IPD    Banking and Financial
PUB  Mondaq Limited
AN     Document BBPUB00020081019e4aj00002


Page 7 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD    Global Antitrust & Trade Regulation Update - October 2008
BY     Mr Barry Pupkin
WC    3,229 words
PD     22 October 2008
SN     Mondaq Business Briefing
SC     BBPUB
LA     English
CY     (c) 2008 Mondaq Ltd

LP
UNITED STATES DOJ Extends Review Of InBev's Planned Takeover Of Anheuser-Busch Global beer conglomerate InBev, S.A. has announced that it received a request for additional information, or "Second Request," from the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) relating to its planned acquisition of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. InBev, which had recently gained Anheuser-Busch's approval of its US$52 billion bid for the company, has pledged to cooperate fully with the DOJ's review. Despite the Second Request,
InBev expects to close the transaction before year's end. Combined, InBev and Anheuser-Busch would be the world's single largest brewer ahead of SABMiller plc. In the United States, Anheuser-Busch controls approximately 50 percent of the beer market, through its Budweiser and Bud Light brands. Direct competition between the brewers is limited as InBev mostly markets more expensive imported beers such as Stella Artois and Beck's.

TD
The companies hope that the combination will improve marketing of both InBev's brands in the United States and Anheuser-Busch's brands abroad, and create other cost-saving synergies. Such synergies are likely to be important to the DOJ, which cited cost-saving efficiencies in approving the joint venture
between the US operations of SABMiller and Molson Coors Brewing Company in June of this year. Even if cleared by the DOJ, the combination of InBev and Anheuser-Busch faces additional hurdles.
Anheuser-Busch shareholders have yet to approve the transaction, which will yield them US$70 per share of stock. The company has called a special shareholders meeting for this purpose to be held on November
12. In addition, a group of US beer drinkers filed a lawsuit in September in US District Court in St. Louis, Missouri seeking to enjoin the transaction as anticompetitive. Anheuser-Busch responded in public statements that the lawsuit lacks merit and the company will vigorously defend the transaction. Finally, InBev recently announced that it postponed a rights issue valued at US$9.8 billion it had hoped to use to finance the acquisition. DOJ Issues Report On Single-Firm Conduct In September the DOJ issued a report about the intersection of the competition laws and unilateral conduct, entitled "Competition and Monopoly: Single-Firm Conduct Under Section 2 of the Sherman Act." The report is directed at consumers, businesses and policy makers, and is the culmination of a year-long series of public hearings launched in June 2006 to examine issues that arise in the context of Section 2 enforcement. Section 2 makes it unlawful for a firm to acquire or maintain monopoly power through improper means, as opposed to
superior innovation or business acumen. Among the topics discussed in the report are: The role of market share in determining monopoly power; The tests employed to determine whether conduct is unlawful including effects-balancing, profit-sacrifice, economic rationale and equally efficient competitor tests; Predatory pricing and bidding; Tying and bundling arrangements; Refusals to deal with competitors; and Exclusive dealing arrangements. The report can be downloaded from the DOJ's website. Although the Federal Trade  Commission (FTC) participated in the hearings about single-firm conduct, it did not participate in issuing the report with the DOJ. Reaction to the report from the FTC has been mixed. Commissioners Harbour, Leibowitz and Rosch issued a joint statement that characterizes the report as "a blueprint for radically weakened enforcement of Section 2 of the Sherman Act." The commissioners went on to criticize the report for relying too heavily on economic theory and statements by the one-sided constituency at the hearings, and for endorsing more-demanding standards for Section 2 enforcement than imposed under the current case law. Chairman Kovacic issued a separate, less-critical statement concerning the report. The chairman's statement praised the efforts of those contributing to the hearings and to the report, but called for a deeper examination of the intellectual roots of Section 2 and modern enforcement trends. Chip Maker Sues High-Def Audio CODEC Developer Over Blu-ray Disc Technology On October 8, 2008 integrated circuits manufacturer Zoran Corporation filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Northern District of California against DTS, Inc., the company that licenses the audio

Page 8 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
encoding/decoding (or CODEC) algorithm used by Blu-ray disc devices. Zoran had alleged that DTS failed to license the algorithm under fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (FRAND) terms, as required under the company's agreement with the Blu-ray Disc Association. According to the terms of the agreement,
DTS pledged to license the algorithm on FRAND terms, in exchange for the Association adopting DTS' patented CODEC as the industrywide standard for Blu-ray high-definition audio technology. Zoran alleged in its complaint that DTS abused its monopoly in the market for Blu-ray disc technology by demanding large, upfront royalty payments as a condition to negotiating license agreements with chip manufacturers. Zoran further alleged that DTS had prevented Zoran's entry into the Blu-ray device market by threatening device manufacturers with lawsuits should they use parts from a nonqualified supplier like Zoran. According to Zoran DTS' action had restrained competition among Blu-ray devices and chip makers, and prevented Zoran from entering the market for Blu-ray hardware. The complaint seeks monetary damages, preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, and a judgment declaring DTS' patents unenforceable due to misuse. FTC Challenges Proposed Merger Between Public Records Publishers The FTC announced that
it has intervened to block the proposed US$4.1 billion acquisition by Reed Elsevier Inc. of ChoicePoint Inc. According to the administrative complaint filed with the  Commission, the companies are direct
competitors in the highly concentrated market for the provision of electronic public records services to law enforcement customers. Reed Elsevier offers public records services through its LexisNexis division, while ChoicePoint offers them through its AutoTrackXP service and CLEAR, a new advanced electronic public records search tool. Collectively the companies account for more than 80 percent of the market for public records search services sold to law enforcement customers. To eliminate the potential anticompetitive effects of the consolidation, the FTC will require the combined company to divest all assets relating to the AutoTrackXP and CLEAR services within 15 days of consummating the transaction. Under the terms of a proposed consent order such assets would be acquired by Thomson Reuters Legal Inc., which, according to the FTC, is well-positioned to compete with LexisNexis in the public records services market through its West Publishing division. To ensure the transition to West is successful, the consent order further requires Reed Elsevier to (i) provide transitional services to West for a period of two years following the transfer; (ii) maintain the marketability and viability of ChoicePoint's public records services operations prior to the transfer; (iii) accept an interim monitor appointed by the FTC to monitor the transition and (iv) periodically report to the FTC until the divestiture is completed. The Commissioners' final vote on the proposed
consent order is now pending. Antitrust Lawsuit Over iPhone Moves Forward A federal district court judge sitting in the Northern District of California has denied the motions by Apple, Inc. and AT&T Mobility LLC to dismiss an antitrust lawsuit over the companies' agreement to make AT&T the exclusive service provider for the popular iPhone device. Plaintiffs had alleged that Apple and AT&T violated Section 2 of the Sherman Act by monopolizing the markets for voice and data services for the iPhone, and that Apple further monopolized the market for aftermarket iPhone applications. According to the complaint by Apple iPhone users, Apple and AT&T agreed that AT&T would be the exclusive service provider for the iPhone through 2012, and in return Apple would receive a percentage of the service fees. Consumers were not aware of this agreement at the time of purchase when they were only required to enroll in a two-year service plan with AT&T. In the decision denying the companies' motion to dismiss, Judge James Ware wrote that the claims are "ripe for adjudication because plaintiffs are alleging that at the point of purchase and initiation of service, defendants involuntarily impose on consumers a contract exclusivity restriction which restricts their freedom from that point forward for at least the next five years and conceivably for the life of the iPhone." Judge Ware also declined to dismiss the plaintiffs' claims against Apple for
monopolizing the market for aftermarket applications for the iPhone. The plaintiffs alleged that Apple attempted to prevent users from removing "software locks," which are installed on every new iPhone to prevent potentially harmful third-party applications from being downloaded to the device. Apple allegedly enforced this policy by issuing warnings that installing third-party applications would void the iPhone's warranty and by publishing update software that damaged "unlocked" iPhones running third-party applications. EUROPEAN UNION Commission Fines Wax Cartel On October 1, 2008 the  European      Commission (Commission) imposed fines totaling €676 million on Exxon Mobil, ENI, Hansen & Rosenthal, Tubapetrol, MOL, Repsol, Sasol, RWE and Total for participating in a price-fixing and
market-sharing cartel in the market for  paraffin  and slack waxes in the European Economic Area (EEA). The infringement, which lasted from 1992 to 2005, was brought to the Commission's attention by Shell. In return for its cooperation, Shell was granted full immunity from fines. The fines imposed on Sasol were increased by 50 percent for its leadership role in the cartel, while the fines imposed on ENI were increased by 60 percent for its involvement in previous cartel activity. The market for  paraffin  and slack waxes is estimated to be worth €500 million annually. Paraffin wax is used in numerous consumer products, such as candles, paper cups and plates, chemicals, tires, car components, rubber, packaging
and certain adhesives. Slack  wax is a raw material used in the production of  paraffin wax. ECJ Rules In Major Pharmaceuticals Case The  European Court of Justice (ECJ) has issued a preliminary ruling in the dispute over supply quotas imposed by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) on prescription drug wholesalers in Greece. In 2000 GSK interrupted the supply of three medicines (Lamictal, Imigran and Serevent) to wholesalers in Greece to eliminate parallel trading, i.e., exporting to higher-priced Member States. In 2001 it resumed supply to the wholesalers, but at volumes sufficient only to meet national demand. In ruling on GSK's conduct, the ECJ stated that unless objectively justified, a dominant firm's refusal to fill orders to restrict parallel trading is an abuse of dominance under Article 82 EC. The court further noted that price
Page 9 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
regulation by Member States, which is pervasive in the pharmaceuticals industry, is not a sufficient justification for such conduct. The court did recognize, however, that a drug maker is entitled to protect its own commercial interests when confronted with orders that are out of the ordinary in terms of quantity. Such determination, the court added, would be assessed by the national courts in light of the needs of the national market and previous trading relations. Freight Cargo Customers Seek Remedies From The UK High Court A US-based law firm has initiated a representative action before the UK High Court against British Airways on behalf of indirect and direct purchasers of air cargo services that suffered losses as a result of the airline's role in a  price-fixing cartel. In August 2007 British Airways and Korean Air Lines agreed to plead guilty to charges brought by US regulators and to pay US$300 million each for participation in the conspiracy in both the passenger and cargo sectors. The information uncovered during the proceedings in the United States contributed to the private action brought in the United Kingdom. To
date, three former executives of British Airways have been prosecuted under the criminal law in the United
Kingdom for their roles in the  cartel. Private Antitrust Actions Likely By TV Stations In Germany
Germany's antitrust authority, the Bundeskartellamt, has granted access to information gathered during its
investigation of IP Deutschland and SevenOne Media (advertising subsidiaries of RTL and ProSiebenSat
1, respectively) to several small TV stations in Germany. In November 2007, the advertising companies,
being investigated by the Bundeskartellamt, agreed to pay  fines totaling €216 million for certain
agreements found by the antitrust authority to have foreclosed competition by smaller broadcasters and
hindered new market entrants. The small TV stations are considering private actions against RTL and
ProSiebenSat 1 to recover monetary losses caused by the agreements. Germany Investigates Pay-TV
Policies On September 18, 2008 the Bundeskartellamt launched an investigation into the alleged abuse of
dominance by pay-TV operators Premiere, Kabel Deutschland and Unitymedia. Pay-TV customers in
Germany are required to purchase set-top boxes that can be activated to receive the signal of a single
provider. If the same customer moves to a location where the provider does not operate, he or she must
buy a new set-top box. The authority will investigate whether such practices restrict competition in the
pay-TV advertising market. Commission Publishes Emergency Guidance On State Aid To Struggling
Banks The European Commission has published new guidance to inform Member States about how they
can assist struggling financial institutions without violating EU state aid rules. In general, the state aid rules
prohibit the use of tax dollars by Member States to subsidize or otherwise prop up national businesses in a
way that distorts cross-border competition. An exception to the state aid rules allows certain measures to
be taken "to remedy a serious disturbance in the economy of a Member State" (Article 87(3)(b) of the EC
Treaty). The new guidance clarifies how Member States might use this exception, and how the
Commission will review proposed measures in light of the present global financial crisis. The guidance
provides that to ensure compliance with the state aid rules and the exception for serious economic
disturbances, Member States should disclose state aid plans to the  Commission before they are
implemented. The  Commission has pledged to respond to requests for approval of proposed state aid
plans, where necessary, within 24 hours or over the weekend. To be approved, plans such as guarantees
or recapitalization schemes must meet certain conditions to ensure that they are narrowly tailored to
stabilize the target institutions and minimize any distortion of competition. Such conditions include, inter
alia, that (i) eligibility for aid not be based on nationality of the beneficiary institutions; (ii) aid is limited in
duration and scope so as to provide only as much assistance as is required to endure the current
economic turmoil; (iii) conditions for receiving aid prevent abuse by institutions that might seek to leverage
aid to enhance their competitive positions; and (iv) appropriate follow-up measures are included that
provide for necessary structural adjustments to the financial sector as a whole or beneficiary institutions.
The guidance document may be downloaded from the  Commission's website. AROUND THE WORLD
JAPAN – Major Record Producers Challenge JFTC Ruling Sony Music Entertainment together with three
major record producers in Japan have filed a lawsuit in the Tokyo High Court challenging a July 2008
ruling by the Japan Fair Trade  Commission (JFTC) that the companies engaged in unfair trade practices
and concerted refusals to deal. The JFTC's ruling followed a cease and desist recommendation that was
issued by the JFTC on March 24, 2005, but ignored by the companies. The focus of the JFTC's
investigation was a suspected arrangement among Sony and the other recording companies relating to
the use of popular songs as mobile phone ring tones. The companies provided Chaku-Uta services, which
sold parts of original recordings for ring tones through a distributor that the companies themselves
co-founded. The JFTC found that such arrangement impeded competition because each recording
company blocked access to songs by other competing services. In appealing the JFTC ruling Sony
claimed that the each company's refusal to deal with the other ring tone providers resulted from
independent business decisions. The JFTC noted in its decision that it discovered no direct evidence of
concerted action and that its findings were based solely on circumstantial evidence. BRAZIL – CADE
Contemplates Changing Merger Filing Thresholds Brazil's antitrust authority, Comisión Nacional de
Defensa de la Competencia (CADE), has announced that it will consider a new interpretation of Brazil's
competition law that would change the merger notification thresholds. Under the current interpretation
mergers must be notified to CADE when a company proposes to acquire a company that has a 20-percent
share in any given market. The agency is contemplating the elimination of this filing requirement if the
transaction would not further concentrate the market and if the companies' combined annual revenues
would not exceed 400 million Brazilian reals (approximately US$191 million). CADE is expected to
formalize the new interpretation by issuing a binding statement, which can occur only after it applies new
Page 10 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
interpretation in at least 10 cases. RUSSIA – FAS Launches New Anticartel Department On October 2,
2008 Russia's Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS) announced the formation of a new anticartel
department to be headed by Alexander Kinev, the FAS' former chief of the Department for State Service
and Staff. Anticartel enforcement has been an area of increasing concern for the FAS, and Chairman of
the Government of the Russian Federation, Vladimir V. Putin, has publicly called for tougher enforcement
of the antimonopoly laws against  cartel participants. The FAS has outlined three preliminary objectives for
the new department: (i) drafting new legislation to strengthen FAS' enforcement capabilities and the
statutory penalties for  cartel behavior; (ii) improving the FAS leniency program for parties that disclose
violations of the anticartel provisions and cooperate in the prosecution of other violators and (iii) carrying
out inquiries of markets that the FAS believes are controlled by cartels. SOUTH KOREA – KFTC Grants
Conditional Approval To eBay Acquisition The South Korean Fair Trade  Commission (KFTC) has
approved eBay Inc.'s proposed acquisition of a 36.6-percent stake in Korea-based online marketplace
Gmarket Inc. from Interpark Corp. and its chairman Ki Hyung Lee. eBay's Internet operations in South
Korea, named Internet Auction, compete directly with Gmarket's online auction and shopping website.
Were eBay to raise its stake in Gmarket through the share purchase from Interpark, it would control more
than 50 percent of its largest competitor and effectively control 87 percent of the market in Korea for
Internet-based consumer-to-consumer transactions. Acknowledging the high degree of concentration
posed by the transaction, the KFTC nevertheless cleared eBay to proceed on the condition that the
companies agree to not raise seller commissions for three years following the deal. The KFTC further cited
ease of entry into the market as a justification for allowing the deal to go forward.  www.ssd.com The
content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should
be sought about your specific circumstances. Mr Barry Pupkin Squire, Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P. 4900
Key Tower 127 Public Square Cleveland Ohio 44114 UNITED STATES Tel: 2164798500 Fax:
2164798780 E-mail: marketing@ssd.com URL:  www.ssd.com Click Here for related articles(c) Mondaq
Ltd, 2008 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 -  http://www.mondaq.com

CO    anhsrb : Anheuser-Busch Companies Inc | artboe : Anheuser-Busch InBev | coorsa : Molson Coors Brewing Company | sabrew : SABMiller PLC | squdem : Squire Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P. | ebayus : eBay Incorporated
IN      i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i427 : Brewing | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656000301 : Etailing (B2C) | i835
: Legal Services | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | iecom : E-commerce | iint : Internet/Online
Services | ionlauc : Online Auctions | iretail : Retail
NS     ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c34
: Competition Issues | gftc : Federal Trade Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda :
Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
RE     usa : United States | namz : North America
IPD    Anti-trust/Competition
PUB  Mondaq Limited
AN     Document BBPUB00020081022e4am000ji
























Page 11 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     Sasol Limited  - Company News
WC     320 words
PD      30 October 2008
SN      NewsTrak Daily
SC      NETRAK
LA      English
CY      Copyright 2008 NewsTrak International Co. Ltd. All rights reserved.

LP
"Sasol Limited - Company News [Ticker: SShipping and Logistics]" provides you a snapshot of latest news related to the company. We know that timeliness is the key to your business success. You can get the idea of each piece of news from the headline first, and then proceed further to do the search for your own interest. All information provided here is intended for a quick reference only. Neither NewsTrak nor
its suppliers or independent providers is liable for any informational errors contained herein. If you want to read the news in full length, please visit the website of individual news provider for more details.
=============================================

TD
Recent News Snapshot:
=============================================
On 23 Oct 2008, (Motley Fool) reported A Silver Lining to the Financial Crisis
On 22 Oct 2008, (Property / Real Estate Newswire) reported Sasol Limited
On 20 Oct 2008, (Briefing.com) reported Sasol downgraded by Deutsche Securities
On 13 Oct 2008, (Motley Fool) reported Top-Rated Stocks in the Bargain Bin
On 10 Oct 2008, (EducationGAR Online Financials) reported SASOL LTD Financials

On 8 Oct 2008, (Property / Real Estate Newswire) reported Sasol Limited - Sasol issues 2008 Annual Financial Statements and files Annual Report on form 20-F with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission
On 7 Oct 2008, (Motley Fool) reported The One Investment You Need To Buy Now
On 3 Oct 2008, (Motley Fool) reported The CAPS Screen: 5 Dividend Dynamos
On 3 Oct 2008, (Property / Real Estate Newswire) reported Sasol Limited
On 1 Oct 2008, (AP) reported EU  fines 9 companies over wax cartel
On 1 Oct 2008, (FT.com) reported Brussels  fines paraffin wax cartel

On 1 Oct 2008, (The Wall Street Journal Online) reported EU imposes  fines of $951.6 million on  paraffin cartel

On 1 Oct 2008, (Property / Real Estate Newswire) reported Sasol Limited: Statement Issued by Sasol
Limited in Response to an Announcement by the  European Commission
News Snapshot
29 October 2008

CO     ssol : Sasol Ltd


Page 12 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
IN       i1 : Energy | i25 : Chemicals | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra
: Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
RE      usa : United States | namz : North America
PUB   NewsTrak International Company Limited
AN      Document NETRAK0020081104e4au001md
































































Page 13 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE     COUNTRYFILE
HD     Sasol hit with huge anti-competition fine
BY     Tom Nevin
WC    1,787 words
PD     1 November 2008
SN     African Business
SC     AFBZ
PG     68
VOL   Issue 347; ISSN: 01413929
LA     English
CY     © 2008 African Business. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.

LP
SOUTH AFRICA
South Africa's synthetic fuels giant, Sasol, together with other international energy companies, was heavily
fined by the EU for breaching competition rules. This, says Tom Nevin, comes in the wake of tighter
anti-competitive behaviour policing.

TD
Talk Show hosts, comedians, journalists and other keepers of the national conscience are quick to pick up on and label current events of particular moment. And so it was that Sasol, South Africa's synthetic fuel colossus, overnight became known internationally as the leader of the "paraffin  mafia".
Sasol was recently  fined euro318m ($426m at current exchange rates) for its role as a leader of a fuel
price-fixing cartel operating on the  European paraffin wax market.

The nine-member group was jointly  fined euro906m by the EU's competition regulator with Sasol being slapped with the biggest penalty. The companies, in a car- tel they called "the blue saloon group", comprised Sasol, Shell in the UK and Netherlands, Spain's Repsol, the US's ExxonMobil, Italy's ENI, German company Tudapetrol, Hansen 8c Rosenthal, Hungary's MOL, German company RWE and France's Total.

"ExxonMobil, MOL, Repsol, Sasol, Shell and Total also engaged in market allocation for this product and ExxonMobil, Sasol, Shell, RWE and Total also fixed prices for slack  wax sold to end- customers on the German market," the EC said in its official notice of its findings.

The regulator found that they conspired to fix prices and share markets for the sale of  paraffin wax. The companies accounted for 75% of the  European paraffin wax market.

Describing the cartel as the "paraffin  mafia", a label the media quickly latched onto, the EU's Competition Commission found that from 1992 to 2005, the producers of  paraffin waxes and slack wax "operated a cartel in which they fixed prices for  paraffin waxes".

The fine must be paid within three months of the ruling and is nearly 10 times the $44m operating profit made by Sasol's Hamburg-based  European wax operation.
The hit on Sasol is the first on a South African company on foreign soil and joins a procession of
successful probes by South Africa's Competition  Commission on local companies found culpable in  price
fixing  and other unfair business practices. Fed up with the way big business has been pillaging the
pockets of its customers, the government moved in and tightened the laws that regulate the way
companies do business.
New breed of corporate raiders

In South Africa, corporate raiders take on a whole new meaning. Many don't so much target one another in the pursuit of sales and profit as they do the people who buy their brands.

While the Competition  Commission has nailed offenders with massive  fines - South African Airways was slapped with a penalty of $ 10.58m for abusing its market dominance, Tiger Brands was  fined for fixing
Page 14 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
the price of bread and its sister company, pharmaceuticals manufacturer Adcock Ingram, was also  fined for collusive tendering - the sentiment prevails that those companies exposed represent just the tip of a global iceberg of shady business practice.

The Sasol affair, however, has broken all records. It is the first South African company to be nabbed on foreign soil and the amount it was  fined makes the penalties imposed on other culprits seem like petty cash.

It also brought together the biggest-ever group of eminent energy-specific corporations in a far reaching price and market fixing conspiracy. The  fines were meted out by Europe's antitrust watchdog the European Com- mission (EC) for participating in the  cartel. "Sasol's fine was in- creased by 50% because it was the leader of the  cartel," said the EC statement. "As a result Sasol will have to pay the largest fine." The  Commission said the companies held regular meetings to discuss prices, allocate markets and/or customers and to exchange sensitive commercial information.

The cartel constitutes "a very serious infringement of EC Treaty antitrust rules" and in setting the  fines, the Commission took into account the respective affected sales of the companies involved as well as the combined market share and the geographical scope of the  cartel agreements.
"There is probably not a household or company in  Europe that has not bought products affected by this
'paraffin  mafia'  cartel with all that implies in terms of paying over the odds, higher costs and economic
damage," said competition commissioner Neelie Kroes. "Such illegal  cartel behaviour cannot and will not
be tolerated by the  Commission, and companies' managers and shareholders should take note," he said.

Later, Sasol said it had not made any provisions for the R3.8bn  fine. "We were unable to provide for it financially because we did not know the extent of the  fine," said Sasol CEO Pat Davies, adding that the company "certainly did not anticipate the magnitude of the  fine".

Davis said that while Sasol would not restate its financial report for 2008 the group would immediately provide for the  fine in its accounts.

"The money will come from our internal treasury. We are fortunate to be a strong cash flow generator and have a strong balance sheet," he said.
SA regulators get tough
Recently South Africa's banks were accused of not having enough competition, and of charging the
world's highest bank fees, now South Africa's corporate manufacturers must digest and live with new laws
that will make it harder for them to skirt anti-competition legislation, and be more painful for them if they
do.

In effect, South Africa's antitrust authorities have kept a promise they made last year to combat  cartel activity as a procession of cases involving price fixing  and market division in key sectors of the South African economy were referred by the Competition Commission to the Competition Tribunal for adjudication, says Heather Irvine of Denys Reitz attorneys.

"In February last year, for example, the  Commission initiated an investigation into  price fixing  and market division in the bread industry by Pioneer Foods, Premier Foods and Tiger Brands after it received telephone complaints from several independent distributors of bread in the Western Cape," she reports. "The Commission extended its investigation nationwide and also initiated a separate investigation into various practices in the milling industry."

In November last year, the Tribunal confirmed a settlement in which Tiger Brands agreed to pay an administrative penalty of $8.46m, or 5.7% of its national turnover for bread operations for the 2006 financial year and to implement a compliance programme.

In May this year Tiger Brands' former subsidiary, Adcock Ingram, admitted its role in a drugs  cartel that rigged state tenders. The company was  fined $5.6m.

The Commission also prosecuted a group of dairy producers after its investigations suggested that the firms were involved in fixing the prices of raw and retail milk and in the manipulation of trading conditions in these markets. The Milk Producers' Organisation of South Africa has since lodged a complaint against several major South African supermarket chains, alleging the fixing of milk prices and the discounts and promotion fees paid by retailers. The complaint is being investigated by the  Commission.

South African Airways paid $ 10.58m in two  fines imposed on it by the Tribunal for  price-fixing by SAA and Lufthansa through their bilateral agreements, and for alleged fuel levy charge fixing (with SA Express), for alleged abuse of dominance.

Page 15 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The Commission's latest Annual Report shows a significant increase in the number of complaints initiated by the Commission - whereas only three complaints were initiated by the  Commission in 2005/6, six
were initiated in 2006/7.

"The Commission is increasingly in a position to initiate investigations rather than to wait for complaints from customers or competitors," says Irvine.
Prison time the only penalty
Before he resigned in tandem with Thabo Mbeki, South Africa's former Minister of Trade and Industry,
Alec Irvine, had indicated that further amendments to the Competition Act were under consideration aimed
at increasing the powers of the  Commission to investigate and prosecute anticompetitive conduct,
particularly in sectors of the economy where there are "inherited" or "complex monopolies".

"In particular," he said, "there is speculation that the amendments will introduce criminal liability for directors of companies which participate in  cartel conduct. Sanctions of this nature were recently enforced against executives involved in  cartel activities in the UK and US. The chairman of the Competition Tribunal, David Lewis is on record as saying that it is 'increasingly held in competition law that the only penalty sufficient to deter  cartel conduct is prison time', and that is a view, quite honestly, that we share."

The Commission's efforts to expose and penalise firms involved in anti- competitive practices are likely to intensify in 2009. In particular, the  Commission has said that it will prioritize investigations into the construction sector ahead of the 2010 soccer World Cup.
A preliminary review of the sector last year indicated possible bid rigging and fixing of input prices. Development
New JlCA is born

JlCA - the Japan International Cooperation Agency has become the world's largest bilateral development agency following its merger with the overseas economic co-operation section of the Japan Bank for international Cooperation (JBIC)

"New" JlCA will take over the soft loans formerly dispensed by JBlC and the grant aid dispersed by Japan's foreign ministry. For the first time, one Japanese agency will provide technical assistance, soft loans and grant aid "all under one roof

With an estimated S5l0.3bn of available financial resources, JlCA works in 150 countries. JlCA president Mrs Sadako Ogata (right) says that "this decision marks a major historical turning point, not only for JICA but for Japan's ODA"

Sasol was recently fined E318 million for its role as a leader of a fuel  price-fixing cartel operating on the European paraffin  wax market. The companies, in a  cartel they called "the blue saloon group", comprised Sasol, Shell in the UK and Netherlands, Spain's Repsol, the US's ExxonMobil, Italy's ENI, German company Tudapetrol, Hansen & Rosenthal, Hungary's MOL, German company RWE and France's Total. The  fine must be paid within three months of the ruling and is nearly 10 times the $44 million operating profit made by Sasol's Hamburg-based  European wax operation. The hit on Sasol is the first on a South African company on foreign soil and joins a procession of successful probes by South Africa's Competition  Commission on local companies found culpable in  price fixing  and other unfair
business practices. While Sasol would not restate its financial report for 2008 the group would immediately provide for the  fine in its accounts.
RF     Copyright International Communications Nov 2008
CO    rwe : RWE AG
IN      i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | i14001 : Petroleum Refining | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities

NS     c314 : Pricing | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c31 : Marketing | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
RE     africaz : Africa | safr : South Africa | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | souafrz : Southern Africa
IPD    Feature
IPC    8510
PUB  International Communications

Page 16 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
AN     Document AFBZ000020081121e4b10000p

Search Summary
Text                                commission and fine* and (cartel or "price-fixing" or "market sharing") and euro* and
(Candle or Wax* or paraffin*) not "political headlines"
Date                                01/09/2008 to 01/11/2008
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                106
Timestamp                      1 April 2019 8:32 PM

















































Page 17 of 17 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
