




Brussels to fine VW for fixing car prices. .................................................................................................................. 2
Brussels to fine Volkswagen for fixing car prices. .................................................................................................... 3
PRESS DIGEST - France - May 29. ....................................................................................................................... 4
EU fines Volkswagen 31 million euros over Passat price-fixing charges ................................................................. 6
Newscast: European Commission fines Volkswagen .............................................................................................. 7
WORLD NEWS - EUROPE - Brussels to fine Volkswagen for fixing car prices. ..................................................... 8
European Commission fines Volkswagen for price fixing......................................................................................... 9
City - VW fined. ..................................................................................................................................................... 10
PRESS DIGEST - British Business - May 31. ....................................................................................................... 11
Brussels fines VW for cheating Passat drivers. ..................................................................................................... 14
European Commission fines Volkswagen for price fixing....................................................................................... 16
European ruling has impact for businesses. .......................................................................................................... 17 shortcuts ... ............................................................................................................................................................. 19
EU's Monti - Will Keep Striving at Lower Prices For Consumers. ......................................................................... 20
Sales of new cars on the increase NEW car registrations rose by seven per cent in April n mainly... .................. 22
Price-fix raids on mobile firms. ............................................................................................................................... 23



































Page 1 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Brussels to fine VW for fixing  car prices.
BY        By DEBORAH HARGREAVES IN BRUSSELS.
WC      331 words
PD       29 May 2001
SN       Financial Times (FT.Com)
SC       FTCOM
LA        English
CY       (c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
The European Commission will on Wednesday  fine Volkswagen, the German carmaker, E20m to E40m ($17m-$35m) for fixing retail car prices. The fine marks the first  Commission decision against retail price maintenance, which is illegal under EU competition law.
Brussels says that when VW introduced its new Passat model in Germany in 1996, it instructed its
German dealers not to grant discounts to customers, but to hold to the list price for all sales.

TD
The carmaker even threatened dealers if they departed from the policy. The  Commission's decision to impose a fine on VW could pave the way for similar inquiries into retail price-fixing.

The Commission imposed a record E102m fine on VW three years ago for restricting cross-border car sales. The fine was subsequently reduced to E90m after the company appealed to the  European court. Opel Nederland, a General Motors subsidiary in the Netherlands, was fined E43m last year for restricting sales of cars to customers from abroad. Brussels' competition officials are also investigating other restrictions imposed by carmakers on their dealers.

The car industry is allowed to operate a system of tied dealerships under a current exemption from regular competition law. But this expires in September 2002 and the  Commission is currently studying what regime should replace it. Mario Monti, the EU's competition commissioner, had in the past suggested that the way carmakers were breaking the rules under their current lenient regime would colour Brussels' judgement about the future.

Mr Monti on Tuesday told the  European parliament that an economic consultancy group would deliver its report in September on the economic impact of different scenarios for replacing the current car sales arrangements. These range from a free-for-all to maintenance of the existing regime. Consumer groups have pressed for the current arrangements to be dismantled while the car industry says the regime is important to maintain adequate after-sales servicing arrangements.

CO       vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN         i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i651 : Automobile Dealing |
i6511 : New Car Dealing | iaut : Automobiles
NS       c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | c3141
: Sales Promotions | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e52 : Euro
Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat :
International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE       eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | weurz : Western Europe
PUB     The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN       Document ftcom00020010715dx5t005pp






Page 2 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Brussels to fine Volkswagen for fixing  car prices. BY        By DEBORAH HARGREAVES IN BRUSSELS.
WC      331 words
PD       29 May 2001
SN       Financial Times (FT.Com)
SC       FTCOM
LA        English
CY       (c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
The European Commission will on Wednesday  fine Volkswagen, the German carmaker, E20m to E40m ($17m-$35m) for fixing retail car prices. The fine marks the first  Commission decision against retail price maintenance, which is illegal under EU competition law.
Brussels says that when VW introduced its new Passat model in Germany in 1996, it instructed its
German dealers not to grant discounts to customers, but to hold to the list price for all sales.

TD
The carmaker even threatened dealers if they departed from the policy. The  Commission's decision to impose a fine on VW could pave the way for similar inquiries into retail price-fixing.

The Commission imposed a record E102m fine on VW three years ago for restricting cross-border car sales. The fine was subsequently reduced to E90m after the company appealed to the  European court. Opel Nederland, a General Motors subsidiary in the Netherlands, was fined E43m last year for restricting sales of cars to customers from abroad. Brussels' competition officials are also investigating other restrictions imposed by carmakers on their dealers.

The car industry is allowed to operate a system of tied dealerships under a current exemption from regular competition law. But this expires in September 2002 and the  Commission is currently studying what regime should replace it. Mario Monti, the EU's competition commissioner, had in the past suggested that the way carmakers were breaking the rules under their current lenient regime would colour Brussels' judgement about the future.

Mr Monti on Tuesday told the  European parliament that an economic consultancy group would deliver its report in September on the economic impact of different scenarios for replacing the current car sales arrangements. These range from a free-for-all to maintenance of the existing regime. Consumer groups have pressed for the current arrangements to be dismantled while the car industry says the regime is important to maintain adequate after-sales servicing arrangements.

CO       vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN         i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles
NS       c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

RE       belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
PUB     The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN       Document ftcom00020010715dx5t005qo









Page 3 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       PRESS DIGEST - France - May 29. WC      269 words
PD       29 May 2001
ET       07:51 AM
SN       Reuters News
SC       LBA
LA       English
CY       (c) 2001 Reuters Limited

LP
PARIS, May 29 (Reuters) - These are leading stories in this morning's Paris newspapers:
LES ECHOS

TD
- Jospin: Europe but with caution. - Final negotiations ahead of Alcatel-Lucent merger.
- European Central Bank President Wim Duisenberg sees inflationary pressure in the  euro-zone as
"temporary".
- The split of Eridania Beghin-Say into four divisions will be effective July 2
- Prada delays listing on the Milan bourse.
- Lafarge expects net earnings per share to rise by at least 10 percent in 2002.
- Michelin ready to buy out minority holders of Polish firm Stomil.
- AOM pilots suspend their strike.
- Credit Agricole strengthens partnerships with Banque Commerciale de Grece.
- LA TRIBUNE
- Jospin unveils European project.
- European Union ready to fine Volkswagen for breaking EU competition rules.
- Troubled Isuzu Motors slashes a quarter of its workforce.

- European Commission to unveil on Wednesday broader  European Union laws against insider trading on securities markets.
- Societe Generale strengthens stakes in Peugeot and Michelin .
- Intervention fears not sufficient to prop  euro currency.
- LE FIGARO-ECONOMIE
- Bourse listings cautiously gathering pace.
- Euronext  listing would value the  European exchange at about three billion  euros.
- Deutsche Bank buys 3.14 percent of Italy's Montedison .
- French CAC-40 index holding above 5,600 points.
- L'AGEFI

- Markets bet on Alcatel-Lucent merger.

Page 4 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
- LIBERATION (Economic section)
- Lucent , the deline of a U.S. flagship.
- THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE
- Alcatel closes in on deal to purchase Lucent.
- Jospin presents his vision for  Europe.
- Duisenberg remains confident about  euro-zone economy.
- U.S. tax cuts could spark recovery later this year.
- Deutsche Telekom Chief faces new attack at annual meeting.

CO      bghnsy : Eridania | cge : Alcatel-Lucent | deut : Deutsche Bank AG | fruzi : Edison SpA | isuzu : Isuzu Motors Ltd | lafar : Lafarge SA | lucti : Lucent Technologies Inc | michln : Compagnie Generale des Etablissements Michelin | nicofr : Nicomatic | peugct : PSA Peugeot Citroen SA | sg : Societe Generale | vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN        i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34531 : Semiconductors | i351
: Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i353 : Motor Vehicle Parts | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco |
i411 : Vegetable Oils | i481 : Rubber Products | i4811 : Tires | i7902 : Telecommunications | i814 :
Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | iaut : Automobiles |
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icnp : Consumer Products
NS       ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest
RE       eurz : Europe | fra : France | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western Europe
AN       Document lba0000020010712dx5t02qt7








































Page 5 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD              EU fines Volkswagen 31 million euros over Passat price-fixing charges
CR              AP
WC             246 words
PD              30 May 2001
ET              05:33 PM
SN              The Canadian Press
SC              CPR
LA               English
CY              Copyright (c) 2001 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS (AP) _ The European Union's head office fined  Europe's biggest automaker, Volkswagen AG, 31 million euros ($27 million) on Wednesday following a price-fixing investigation.

The fine resulted from charges that VW was pressing German dealers to drop rebates to customers who bought the Passat from 1996 to 1999.

TD
Dealers allegedly were threatened with the termination of their contracts with VW if they failed to maintain prices for the model.
``We are dealing with a situation where a manufacturer has tried to set end-user prices,'' EU
Commission spokesman Michael Tscherny said. ``This is a clear infringement of competition rules.''
He estimated German motorists could have saved up to 4,000 marks ($1,750 US) on each of the
400,000 Passats sold in Germany over the period.

Volkswagen, already fighting a fine for another violation of EU competition law, said it would appeal the new penalty, which ``appears excessive.''
``Pricing has always been and will remain the sole responsibility of distributors,'' VW spokesman
Guenther Scherelis insisted.
``No agreements infringing on EU law were concluded at any time.''

In July, the  European Court of Justice let stand a fine of 90 million  euros ($77 million US) against Volkswagen for forcing Italian dealers not to sell to foreigners looking for a lower price than they could get at home.
That fine was the largest the  European Commission had ever levied against a company.

CO              passfr : Passat SA | vlkwag : Volkswagen AG

IN               i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | iaut : Automobiles
NS              ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | e512 : Physical Trade | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | eucj : European Court of Justice | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE              eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | weurz : Western Europe
IPD             Business
AN              Document cpr0000020010711dx5u01633






Page 6 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD   Newscast:  European Commission fines Volkswagen
WC   74 words
PD    30 May 2001
SN    Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace
SC    MKPL
LA    English
CY    (c) Copyright 2001, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.

LP
DAVID BRANCACCIO, anchor: Now some final notes. The EuropeanCommission has fined                    Volkswagen more than $26 million for preventing German car dealers from selling the Passat model at a discount. The  commission also noted that before-tax prices for VWs sold in Germany were higher than all the other EU member states except for Britain. German buyers paid about $2,000 more for a car than did other buyers.

CO   passfr : Passat SA
IN     i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
NS    eec : European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE    eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | weurz : Western Europe
AN    Document mkpl000020010712dx5u000m1








































Page 7 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       WORLD NEWS - EUROPE - Brussels to fine Volkswagen for fixing  car prices. BY        By DEBORAH HARGREAVES.
WC      295 words
PD       30 May 2001
SN       Financial Times
SC       FTFT
LA        English
CY       (c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
The European Commission will today fine Volkswagen, the German carmaker,  Euros 20m to Euros
40m ( #12m-#25m) for fixing retail car prices.
The fine marks the first  Commission decision against retail price maintenance, which is illegal under EU
competition law.

TD
Brussels says that when VW introduced its new Passat model in Germany in 1996, it instructed its
German dealers not to grant discounts to customers, but to hold to the list price for all sales.

The carmaker even threatened dealers if they departed from the policy. The  Commission's decision to impose a fine on VW could pave the way for similar inquiries into retail price-fixing.

The Commission imposed a record Euros 102m fine on VW three years ago for restricting cross-border car sales. The fine was subsequently reduced to  Euros 90m after the company appealed to the European court. Opel Nederland, a General Motors subsidiary in the Netherlands, was fined  Euros 43m last year for restricting sales of cars to customers from abroad. Brussels' competition officials are also investigating other restrictions imposed by carmakers on their dealers.

The car industry is allowed to operate a system of tied dealerships under a current exemption from regular competition law. But this expires in September 2002 and the  Commission is currently studying what regime should replace it. Mario Monti, the EU's competition commissioner, had in the past suggested that the way carmakers were breaking the rules under their current lenient regime would colour Brussels' judgment about the future.

Mr Monti yesterday told the  European parliament that an economic consultancy group would deliver its report in September on the economic impact of different scenarios for replacing the current car sales arrangements.

CO       vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN         i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i651 : Automobile Dealing |
i6511 : New Car Dealing | iaut : Automobiles
NS       c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | c31 : Marketing | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE       eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | weurz : Western Europe
PUB     The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN       Document ftft000020010715dx5u001lm







Page 8 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      European Commission fines Volkswagen for price fixing. WC     150 words
PD      31 May 2001
SN      Channelnewsasia
SC      CNEWAS
LA      English
CY      (c) 2001 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

LP
The European Commission has fined Volkswagen, Europe's biggest car manufacturer, US$27 million following a price-fixing investigation.

The commission said that between 1996 and 1999, Volkswagen pressured German dealers not to grant rebates to customers who bought its then-new Passat.

TD
Dealers were threatened with the termination of dealer contracts if they failed to keep prices for the model at or near the recommended retail price.
Volkswagen says it will appeal the  commission's decision.
It is already fighting a fine for another violation of EU competition law.
In July, the  European Court of Justice let stand a US$77 million fine against Volkswagen.

The carmaker had forced its Italian dealers not to sell to foreigners looking for a lower price than they could get at home.
The fine was the largest the  European Commission had ever levied against a company.

CO     vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN       i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles

NS      c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE      eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | weurz : Western Europe
AN      Document cnewas0020010711dx5v008is





















Page 9 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD              City - VW fined. WC             41 words
PD              31 May 2001
SN              The Daily Telegraph
SC              DT
PG              39
LA               English
CY              (c) 2001 Telegraph Group Limited, London

LP
THE European Commission fined Volkswagen Eu31m ( #19m) for imposing restrictive prices in the German market in 1996 and 1997, when it told dealers not to sell the new Passat at prices considerably lower than the recommended retail price.

CO              vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN               i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles
NS              c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News
RE              eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
AN              Document dt00000020010711dx5v005lv





































Page 10 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     PRESS DIGEST - British Business - May 31. WC     1,397 words
PD      31 May 2001
ET      05:57 AM
SN      Reuters News
SC      LBA
LA      English
CY      (c) 2001 Reuters Limited

LP
'NO IMPROPRIETY' AS TWO MORE DIRECTORS QUIT SSL
Daily Telegraph

TD
Two more directors of SSL , the maker of Durex and Marigold gloves, have resigned as the company investigates 25 million stg in overstated sales in the 25 months to March 2000. Dieno George, formerly acting chief executive of the group, and Graham Collyer, group technical director, tendered their resignations with immediate effect. The pair stated: "There can be no question of impropriety on our part." KPMG and law firm DLA are combing internal documents and talking to employees. SSL admitted that it had 60 million stg of excess condoms and gloves in the pipeline.
UPBEAT GEORGE SAYS ECB NOT TO BLAME FOR  EURO SLUMP The Independent.
Sir Edward George has told a Japanese audience that casting blame on the ECB for the slump in the
euro was "unjustified". In a strong defence of the ECB, he said: "The  European Central Bank would have
put the internal stability of the  euro area at risk if it had attempted to use monetary policy to target the
euro's exchange rate, as many of its critics were suggesting it should." Sir Edward added that the ECB's
role was to use monetary policy to maintain low inflation. In this it had been "relatively successful".
ROCHE TO CUT 700 UK JOBS IN GLOBAL PURGE Daily Telegraph
Swiss drugs giant Roche will make redundant 3,000 staff worldwide over the next three years as the
group restructures its pharmaceuticals division and strives to strengthen sales, improve profit margins and
cut costs. No cutbacks are planned in research spending. In the UK, 700 jobs will go at the Welwyn
Garden City operation. Roche shares slipped 17 percent this year in the face of few new products and
stiff competition.
PROFIT WARNING THREATENS TO PUT ALCATEL INTO PLAY. The Times
Alcatel , the French telecom equipment group, has become a takeover target following the failure of talks with Lucent and a profits warning. Five percent was wiped off its Paris-quoted shares after the company warned that "exceptional depreciations" in its telecoms division would produce a loss of 3 billion  euros (1.9 billion stg) for the three months to June 30. Shares in Alcatel ended at 29.26  euros, their lowest close since 1999. The Lucent merger talks collapsed after Henry Schacht, the Lucent chairman, walked out of the negotiations when Serge Tchuruk, his Alcatel counterpart, insisted on treating the alliance as a takeover rather than a "merger of equals".
GAMEPLAY LOOKS FOR A BUYER The Times.


Page 11 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Internet games retailer Gameplay yesterday blamed the UK's tardy rollout of broadband technology for its decision to sell off the struggling business. The company is in talks with a third party to sell the business, which incurred a pre-tax loss of 56.1 million stg in the six months to January. Gameplay had hoped to distribute games online and through interactive digital TV. But both routes depend on broadband technology for high-speed internet access. Gameplay's shares fell from 43/4p stg to 7.5p and another 40 employees are expected to be made redundant, joining the 275 who have already lost their jobs.
PILKINGTON TO SPEND 15 MILLION STG ON SELF-CLEAN GLASS The Times.
Pilkington , the glassmaker, is to spend 15 million stg on Pilkington Activ, a chemically-coated glass that dissolves bird droppings and dead flies. The glass will launch in the UK and US within a year and 5 million stg will be spent converting each of three production lines. There are hopes for orders over 70,000 tonnes by the end of 2003. Paolo Scaroni, the chief executive, said: "It is with innovation like this that we will be able to find growth as the trading environment becomes difficult." He underlined his faith in the company with the purchase of 150,000 worth of Pilkington shares. But his purchase lost almost 8 percent last night as the shares fell to 112.5p. Pre-tax profits rose from 120 million stg to 172 million stg.
OIL FIRMS BACK IN PROFIT AT THE PUMP The Guardian.
With international petrol prices falling by a fifth over the past two weeks, analysts reported yesterday that oil companies are making profits on UK petrol forecourts for the first time in six months. BP said its gross margins were 4-4.5p a litre and it was "actually making a little bit of profit", but denied suggestions that oil companies were artificially holding down prices because of the election. Analysts expect to see prices fall further as refineries increase output following the spring maintenance period.
BRUSSELS FINES VW FOR VIOLATIONS The Guardian.
The European Commission has fined Volkswagen 18.7 million stg for what competition commissioner Mario Monti described as a "hardcore" violation of EU law. The  commission said VW had deliberately prevented German dealers from offering discounts to customers wanting to buy VW Passats and had threatened the dealers with termination of their contracts if they did not toe the line. It estimated that consumers had been done out of up to 500 million stg over three years, or 1,300 stg for every one of the
400,000 Passats sold in Germany between 1996 and 1999. VW said it would appeal claiming the price restrictions were required to protect brand image and to shore up dealers' profits.
LIFFE TIE TO EXCHANGE OPPOSED The Guardian.
The chief executive of broking firm Garban-Intercapital yesterday poured cold water on the notion of a merger between the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange and the London Stock Exchange. Michael Spencer said the logic was not overwhelming, since Liffe is mostly involved in interest rate products rather than equities. His comments came as Garban-Intercapital, a leading shareholder in Liffe with a 4.5 percent stake, reported pre-tax profits of 75.6 million stg. The company plans to change its name to Icap and will make bids for rivals if the price is right.
ANGLIAN WATER MULLS LEGAL ACTION OVER MORRISON ASSETS The Independent.
AWG, the East Anglian water company, may seek compensation after discovering that the assets of Morrison Construction are worth less than the price AWG paid for them in September. AWG also announced that Gordon Morrison, who received 57 million stg in cash and shares from last year's deal
and subsequently became head of AWG's asset management business, left the company on Tuesday. Mr Morrison's brother, Sir Fraser Morrison, also received 57 million stg from the sale proceeds. Shares fell 4 percent to 595p after the company revealed it had written down 22.9 million stg on the fair value of Morrison's net assets at the time of acquisition.
SCOTTISH AND SOUTHERN LOOKS FOR US 'MERGER OF EQUALS' The Independent.


Page 12 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
A lack of fuel - in this case rain - to run hydroelectric power stations in Scotland, last year wiped 20 million stg off the bottom line at Scottish and Southern Energy. While reporting a 6 percent rise in pre-tax profits to 556.1 million stg for the year ended 31 March, the company also announced it was looking for a nil premium merger in the US. SSE said it only wanted a merger of equals, but added it was not considering the several troubled utilities in California. Closer to home, the company said it had more than 2.5 billion
stg ready for the purchase of a regional electricity company. Operating profit rose 24 percent to 232.3 million stg.
INDEPENDENT NEWS & MEDIA 'WELL PLACED FOR GROWTH' THIS YEAR The Independent.
Sir Anthony O'Reilly, the executive chairman of Independent News & Media , said the spread of investments across the UK, Ireland, New Zealand, Australia and South Africa would insulate his company from any sudden economic downturn. In 2000, the group increased pre-tax profit by 13 percent to 93 million stg and sales were up by 15 percent. Sir Anthony said the company was doing "extremely well" in Ireland and "well" in South Africa and New Zealand. However he warned that the climate in Britain had become quite tough owing to the downturn in advertising.
Report produced by bmcnews. For further details of international press and broadcast services:
info@bmc.co.uk; Tel. +44 (0)207 377 1742; Fax: +44 (0)207 377 6103.
Copyright 2001 bmcnews.

CO     anwa : Anglian Water Group Limited | bp : BP PLC | cge : Alcatel-Lucent | gamply : Gameplay PLC | hofman : Roche Holding AG | innws : Independent News & Media PLC | lucti : Lucent Technologies Inc | nsheb : Scottish & Southern Energy PLC | pilk : Pilkington PLC | setnol : SSL International PLC | vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN       i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i1610107 : Electric Power Generation - Hydro | i17 : Water Utilities | i247 : Glass/Glass Products | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i2578 : Over-the-counter Drugs | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | i7902 : Telecommunications | iaut : Automobiles | icnp : Consumer Products | imed : Media
NS      ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nsum : News Digest

RE      africaz : Africa | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eurz : Europe | safr : South Africa | souafrz : Southern Africa | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
AN      Document lba0000020010712dx5v02nkk





























Page 13 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          Brussels fines VW for cheating  Passat drivers. BY          By Andrew Osborn in Brussels.
WC         378 words
PD          31 May 2001
SN          The Guardian
SC          GRDN
PG          29
LA           English
CY          (c) 2001

LP
The European commission fined Volkswagen #18.7m yesterday for illegally fixing the price of the Passat model. It said the German carmaker had deliberately prevented dealers from offering discounts to customers.

Although Brussels admitted that the practices had only taken place in Germany, it pointed out that consumers had been cheated of a potential pounds bn over three years or #1,300 for each one of the
400,000 Passats sold in Germany from 1996 to 1999.

TD
The case is all the more serious, the  commission added, because Volkswagen is  Europe's largest carmaker, Germany the continent's biggest market and dealers had been threatened with termination of their contracts if they did not fall into line.
In January 1998, Brussels found that the carmaker illegally instructed Italian dealers not to sell to
non-Italians, who were crossing the border to capitalise on lower prices. That fine was reduced by the
European court of justice on appeal but Volkswagen still faces a bill of #54m, the highest Brussels has
ever imposed on a single company.

Mario Monti, the competition commissioner, said Volkswagen's latest misdemeanour amounted to `a hardcore" violation of EU law. `Today's decision is once again a clear signal that competition policy serves consumers' interests. It is the first decision regarding resale price maintenance,' the Italian explained.

`The measures represent a clear restriction of dealers' freedom to set their own prices, and were aimed at changing their commercial behaviour to the detriment not only of German consumers, but also of those from other member states.'

Volkswagen immediately announced an appeal to the  European court of justice and described the amount of the fine as `disproportionate.' It argued that the price restrictions were necessary to protect its brand image and to shore up dealers' profits and claimed that its behaviour was not in breach of EU competition law.

Mr Monti disagreed and yesterday hinted that VW's sharp practices would influence him when he decides whether to renew the EU-regulated distribution system for selling cars throughout  Europe.

The present system, which expires in September of next year, allows manufacturers to operate a system of tied dealerships and exempts them from ordinary competition rules.

CO          vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN            i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i651 : Automobile Dealing |
iaut : Automobiles
NS          c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gcon : Consumer Affairs | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE          belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eur : | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Page 14 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
AN          Document grdn000020010712dx5v009xb






































































Page 15 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      European Commission fines Volkswagen for price fixing. WC    150 words
PD     1 June 2001
SN     Channelnewsasia
SC     CNEWAS
LA      English
CY     (c) 2001 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

LP
The European Commission has fined Volkswagen, Europe's biggest car manufacturer, US$27 million following a price-fixing investigation.

The commission said that between 1996 and 1999, Volkswagen pressured German dealers not to grant rebates to customers who bought its then-new Passat.

TD
Dealers were threatened with the termination of dealer contracts if they failed to keep prices for the model at or near the recommended retail price.
Volkswagen says it will appeal the  commission's decision.
It is already fighting a fine for another violation of EU competition law.
In July, the  European Court of Justice let stand a US$77 million fine against Volkswagen.

The carmaker had forced its Italian dealers not to sell to foreigners looking for a lower price than they could get at home.
The fine was the largest the  European Commission had ever levied against a company.

CO     vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN       i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles

NS     c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE     asiaz : Asia | eur : | eurz : Europe | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | singp : Singapore
AN     Document cnewas0020010711dx61008q2




















Page 16 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        European ruling  has impact for businesses. BY        By VINCENT POWER.
WC       655 words
PD        8 June 2001
SN        Irish Times
SC        IRTI
PG       55
LA        English
CY        (c) 2001

LP
Last week's decision by the  European Commission to fine Volkswagen (VW) E30.96 million (#24.4 million) for price-fixing has wider implications for business generally.

The Commission objected to VW telling its dealers not to give discounts on sales of new VW Passats, which it regarded as unlawful price-fixing. It objected because such "concerted practice" between suppliers and resellers prevents competition on price between resellers. Technically, it is described as resale price maintenance (RPM). The  Commission and the Republic both outlaw it. The US practice is not so uniform. The thinking is that consumers lose out on price competition where there is RPM but may gain on improved service from resellers where there is sufficient competition.

TD
The significance of the VW decision is manifold. Some business people may be surprised at the narrowness of the rules; the unlawful behaviour was not so much fixing the price but only an element of it (namely, the discounts) and was thus, narrower than "normal" pricefixing. There was no "agreement" between the parties in a conventional sense. Some business people might have even seen it as
pro-competitive by giving a level playing field to all dealers. However, the decision reiterates the Commission's belief that RPM is wrong even though there has been some rolling back on this view by US courts.

The decision brings the motor sector back into focus at a time when the  Commission is considering how to regulate it and may even give rise to class actions or compensation claims by consumers. This could have happened in any industry. Businesses need a competition compliance programme and culture. At  European Union level, such practices expose businesses to fines of up to 10 per cent of worldwide turnover. At the Irish level, similar fines may be imposed but also executives may be made personally liable for anti-competitive behaviour and sentenced to up to two years in jail as well as being fined up to E3.8 million.

Businesses may recommend a resale price and a discount/ rebate policy but must, at all times, let resellers choose their own pricing practices. Suppliers must not react to discounting or rebates by their resellers. They must not take on board complaints from other resellers. Clearly, some consumers have complained to the Competition Authority and the  Commission. Many complaints are unfounded because there can be legitimate reasons why "the price is the same everywhere", such as genuine
competition. However, some complaints are legitimate. According to the  Commission, some consumers in the VW case were overcharged by as much as E2,000.

Legally, they could reclaim this from the dealers, who, in turn, might seek to reclaim it from VW. The claim against the dealers seems to be, on general principles, a sound one (subject to proof) but the
claim between the dealer and VW is not so clear-cut because technically, they both did wrong, according to the Commission. The Commission must be careful to only tackle genuine cases and not seek to favour one industry over another by choosing the "usual suspects" even when the evidence is flimsy.
This populist competition policy can be a dangerous tactic where cases are merely stunts to attract media coverage and are not driven by pure competition concerns.
VW has already indicated its intention to appeal to the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg and will
then probably appeal to the  European Court of Justice. Such appeals usually result in some reduction of
the fine and could even result in the quashing of the  Commission's decision where the court finds that


Page 17 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
the Commission breached a rule of procedure. Either way, if the VW decision falls away, there is little doubt that the principle that price-fixing is wrong will survive.
Vincent Power is partner and head of EU competition and regulatory law unit at A&L Goodbody
Solicitors.
CO       vlkwag : Volkswagen AG
IN         i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles
NS        c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
RE        eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | weurz : Western Europe
AN        Document irti000020010712dx680010k

























































Page 18 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD                    shortcuts ... WC                    43 words
PD                     8 June 2001
SN                     Sydney Morning Herald
SC                     SMHH
PG                    3
LA                     English
CY                     © 2001 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

LP
shortcuts
Nix fixing

TD
The European Commission has fined Volkswagen $51.2 million for barring German dealers from discounting its Passat models from 1996 to 1999. VW is appealing the size of the fine.
ith six dealers in Sy

RE                     austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
PUB                  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN                     Document smhh000020010713dx6800djr




































Page 19 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       EU's Monti - Will Keep Striving at Lower Prices For Consumers. WC      373 words
PD       11 June 2001
ET       03:14 PM
SN       Market News International
SC       MARNEW
LA       English
CY       (c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.

LP
- Launches Investigation Into DVD Sales

BRUSSELS (MktNews) - The  European Commission will continue to fight to break cartels and cut prices for consumers, as has been demonstrated by the latest investigation into the high price of digital versatile discs (DVDs), EU Commissioner for Competition Mario Monti said Monday.

TD
Monti used a speech in Stockholm to announce that Brussels has written to Hollywood film companies asking them about DVD pricing policies and to stress that the  commission will continue its recent policy of extensive anti-cartel probes to help cut consumer prices in the EU.

"I think competition authorities can be proud of the positive impact of their work, and the clear benefits to consumers: lower prices, more choice, and more innovation," Monti said. "I anticipate with relish fighting for the consumer in many more cases as Competition Commissioner."
He also cited recent success in the attempt to bring down prices for EU consumers.

In the automobile sector, the decision last year against Opel Nederland "demonstrated our determination to act against obstacles to parallel trade in cars."

Likewise, the decision two weeks to  fine Volkswagen - for the second time - should be seen as positive. Volkswagen had instructed its German dealers in 1996 and 1997 to show "price discipline" and not to sell the new Passat automobile at prices considerably below the recommended retail price.
"There is still room in Sweden to increase competitive pressure on prices," he said.

For telecommunications, Monti said that across the EU there have been significant price reductions following the liberalisation in 1998.

On DVD pricing, Monti said the  Commission has "received a significant number of complaints from private citizens."
"In each case, the complaint is virtually the same - namely, that DVD prices are significantly higher in the
EU than in the USA."

He said the coding system, whereby a DVD sold in one of the world's six regions cannot be played on a DVD player sold in another region, "allows the film production companies to charge higher DVD prices in the EU because EU consumers are artificially prevented from purchasing DVDs from overseas."
- Matthew Saltmarsh, Brussels bureau; matthew@mktnews.com; 00-32-2-230-4370 [TOPICS: MI

IN        i3452 : Records/Tapes/Discs | icnp : Consumer Products
NS       c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
eec : European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE       belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

Page 20 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
AN       Document marnew0020010714dx6b000s6






































































Page 21 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD             Sales of new cars on the increase NEW car registrations rose by seven per cent in April n mainly...
WC            191 words
PD             6 July 2001
SN             The Citizen
SC             CITIZN
LA              English
CY             (c) 2001 The Citizen

LP
Sales of new cars on the increase NEW car registrations rose by seven per cent in April n mainly thanks to a surge in the private market.

The latest figures show private sales through franchised dealers climbed 18 per cent over the previous month.

TD
The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders says the UK continues to buck the  European trend, where sales fell by an average of 4.9 per cent in the first quarter of 2001.

SMMT chief executive Chris Macgowan said: "Although some people have called for an end to manufacturers' dealer networks, seven consecutive months of growth shows that car buyers have confidence."

Top sellers again in April were the Ford Focus and the new Ford Mondeo. The forecast for total registrations in 2001 is 2.25 million cars n up slightly on last year.

The European Commission is still deliberating over whether or not to  fine Volkswagen for breaking competition rules on price setting. VW could face a fine of more than $4.56 million from the EU.

IN               i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automobiles
NS             c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | c1513 : Sales Figures | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
RE             eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
IPC            AGENCY
AN             Document citizn0020011009dx76007xu























Page 22 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Price-fix  raids on mobile firms.
BY       By Clive Mathieson and David Lister in Brussels.
WC      533 words
PD       12 July 2001
SN       The Times
SC       T
PG       1
LA        English
CY       © 2001 Times Newspapers Ltd. All rights reserved

LP
All five of Britain's mobile telephone companies were simultaneously raided by  European Commission
investigators yesterday on suspicion of overcharging their customers when overseas.
Teams of inspectors swooped without warning on the head offices of Vodafone, BT Cellnet, Orange,
One 2 One and Virgin Mobile after finding evidence that they may have colluded in setting artificially high
charges for their overseas "roaming" services.

TD
British consumers are charged as much as #1.99 a minute to make a call while abroad and #1.49 to receive one. City analysts consider the "roaming" service to be one of the companies' biggest cash cows.

The Commission said in a statement that its initial inquiries had "established serious competition concerns...that warrant further investigations".

The investigation could eventually see prices tumble for using mobile telephones abroad, but not before millions of British tourists leave the UK for this summer's holidays.

The companies also face potentially huge fines if found guilty of infringing European competition law and their shares fell sharply as news of the raids spread. In theory the Commission could fine them up to 10 per cent of their worldwide turnover. It  fined Volkswagen #56 million for anti-competitive practices in
1998 and the British company JCB #24 million last year.

The Consumers' Association had already accused the mobile telephone companies of overcharging. "If these raids find evidence of price fixing, then strong legal action must be taken," it said.

The five British operators denied price fixing and insisted that rates were competitive. "If they are looking for evidence of collusion they just won't find any," one executive said.

As many as 50 commission investigators raided at least ten offices in London and the South East. They were accompanied by officials from the British Office of Fair Trading. They were said to be looking through paperwork and e-mails. The  Commission also raided all four mobile phone companies in Germany.

Mobile telephone companies negotiate fixed roaming rates with foreign companies but can then charge their consumers whatever they want.

The Commission suspects that the companies have agreed to set a common rate of about a  euro a minute, or 61p, for making a call while overseas. However, charges rise sharply, for example, for consumers using popular pay-as-you go phones, calls within a foreign country or calls from one overseas country to another. BT charges #1.49 a minute to receive a call on a pay-as-you-go phone outside the UK. To call any country outside  Europe or North America using a BT pay-as-you-go service would cost #1.99. Roaming charges also vary wildly. It costs #1.99 to call the UK from Australia on Vodaphone, 99p on BT Cellnet and One 2 One and 70p on Orange. It costs 17p a minute to receive a call from the UK in Australia with Virgin, 35p with Orange and #1 with One 2 One. High charges are one reason why using a mobile in Europe can be up to ten times more expensive than in America.
Leading article, page 19

Page 23 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
(c) Times Newspapers Ltd, 2001.
CO       btcom : BT Group PLC | dbptel : Deutsche Telekom AG | dgt : France Telecom SA | ratel : Vodafone
Group PLC | vrgmob : Virgin Mobile Holdings (UK) PLC
IN         i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services
NS       c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
RE       eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
PUB     News International Associated Services Limited
AN       Document t000000020010712dx7c000gz

Search Summary
Text                                commission and euro* and fine* volkswagen
Date                                29/05/2001 to 29/07/2001
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                16
Timestamp                      7 April 2019 8:05 PM







































Page 24 of 24 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
