




Monti says Glaxo drug curbs break EU rules. .......................................................................................................... 2
EUROPE - Monti says Glaxo drug curbs break EU rules......................................................................................... 4
Glaxo SmithKline. ..................................................................................................................................................... 6
EU to ban GlaxoSmithKline 's dual pricing - source. ................................................................................................ 7
UPDATE 1-EU outlaws GSK dual pricing, drugmaker may appeal. ........................................................................ 9
EC watchdog bans GSK's dual-price drugs policy ................................................................................................ 10
EU/COMPETITION. ............................................................................................................................................... 11





















































Page 1 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Monti says Glaxo drug curbs break EU rules. BY       By DEBORAH HARGREAVES IN BRUSSELS.
WC      500 words
PD       4 May 2001
SN       Financial Times (FT.Com)
SC       FTCOM
LA        English
CY       (c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
Mario Monti, the European Union's competition commissioner, will tell  Glaxo Smithkline, the pharmaceuticals company, that its policy of restricting the export of cheap medicines and drugs from the Spanish market to Britain is in breach of EU competition rules.

On Tuesday Mr Monti will ban the dual-pricing scheme suspended two years ago when the EU antitrust investigation was first opened. The  European Commission, however, is unable to  fine the company because Glaxo had informed Brussels of its sales conditions to Spanish wholesalers and asked for approval. The Commission has the power to  fine companies up to 10 per cent of their global revenues if they abuse EU antitrust rules but not if they ask for clearance first.

TD
Brussels is eager to act against what it sees as the fragmentation of the EU's single market by companies operating discriminatory pricing policies in different EU countries.  Glaxo had restricted exports of competitively priced drugs from Spain to Britain, where it charges much higher prices. But last year, the European court dealt a blow to Brussels' fight against restrictions on so-called parallel imports within the EU when it overturned a E3m ($2.7m)  fine on Bayer, the German pharmaceuticals company.

The Commission had  fined Bayer for restricting sales of pharmaceuticals to its French and Spanish wholesalers to stop them exporting drugs to the UK. The court said the Commission had failed to prove there was an agreement between Bayer and its wholesalers and threw out the  fine. Mr Monti has, however, appealed against the court's decision.

The pharmaceuticals industry has often complained that free trade in Europe is incompatible with the fact that member governments set national prices for medicines through centralised buying practices. The industry has in the past pressed for free pricing in drugs, as exists in the US, rather than see the cost of medicines dragged down to the level of the lowest-priced countries such as Spain or Greece.

But the Commission has argued that the existence of national price regulations does not justify impeding competition rules and, in particular, restricting parallel trade within EU countries. When it opened its inquiry into two years ago the Commission said the company's "pricing system makes it difficult, if not impossible, to export from Spain to many other EU countries". Brussels is concerned that consumers' access to cheaper medicines is limited in some countries by policies of the pharmaceuticals companies.

Glaxo had argued that its system should be exempt from EU rules because it allowed it to increase
profits and invest in the research and development of innovative new products. The company can appeal
to the European court against the Commission's decision. Mr Monti will also on Tuesday approve
rescue-and-restructuring aid for Philip Holzmann, the German construction group, and initiate a
proceeding that will allow Germany to change the terms under which it finances its state savings banks,
or Landesbanken.
CO       glxo : GlaxoSmithKline PLC
IN         i257 : Pharmaceuticals

NS       c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE       belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Page 2 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
PUB     The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN       Document ftcom00020010715dx54001ri




































































Page 3 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       EUROPE - Monti says Glaxo drug curbs break EU rules. BY       By DEBORAH HARGREAVES.
WC      474 words
PD       5 May 2001
SN       Financial Times
SC       FTFT
LA       English
CY       (c) 2001 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
Mario Monti, the European Union's competition commissioner, will tell  Glaxo Smithkline, the pharmaceuticals company, that its policy of restricting the export of cheap medicines and drugs from the Spanish market to Britain is in breach of EU competition rules.

On Tuesday Mr Monti will ban the dual-pricing scheme suspended two years ago when the EU antitrust investigation was first opened. The  European Commission, however, is unable to  fine the company because Glaxo had informed Brussels of its sales conditions to Spanish wholesalers and asked for approval.

TD
The Commission has the power to  fine companies up to 10 per cent of their global revenues if they abuse EU antitrust rules but not if they ask for clearance first.

Brussels is eager to act against what it sees as the fragmentation of the EU's single market by companies operating discriminatory pricing policies in different EU countries.  Glaxo had restricted exports of competitively priced drugs from Spain to Britain, where it charges much higher prices. But last year, the European court dealt a blow to Brussels' fight against restrictions on so-called parallel imports within the EU when it overturned a Euros 3m ( #1.9m)  fine on Bayer, the German pharmaceuticals company.

The Commission had  fined Bayer for restricting sales of pharmaceuticals to its French and Spanish wholesalers to stop them exporting drugs to the UK. The court said the Commission had failed to prove there was an agreement between Bayer and its wholesalers and threw out the  fine. Mr Monti has, however, appealed against the court's decision.

The pharmaceuticals industry has often complained that free trade in Europe is incompatible with the fact that member governments set national prices for medicines through centralised buying practices. The industry has pressed for free pricing in drugs, as exists in the US, rather than see the cost of medicines dragged down to the level of the lowest-priced countries such as Spain or Greece.

But the Commission has argued that the existence of national price regulations does not justify impeding competition rules and, in particular, restricting parallel trade within EU countries. When it opened its inquiry into two years ago the Commission said the company's "pricing system makes it difficult, if not impossible, to export from Spain to many other EU countries". Brussels is concerned that consumers' access to cheaper medicines is limited.  Glaxo had argued that its system should be exempt from EU rules because it allowed it to increase profits and invest in the research and development of new products.

* Mr Monti will also on Tuesday approve rescue-and-restructuring aid for Philip Holzmann, the German construction group, and initiate a proceeding that will allow Germany to change the terms under which it finances its state savings banks, or Landesbanken.

CO      glxo : GlaxoSmithKline PLC
IN        i257 : Pharmaceuticals

NS       c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations

Page 4 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
RE       eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
IPC      Prices
PUB    The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN       Document ftft000020010715dx55000dt

































































Page 5 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          Glaxo SmithKline. WC        228 words
PD         6 May 2001
SN         The Financial News
SC         LONFIN
LA          English
CY         (c) 2001 London Financial News Publishing Limited . Data not available for redissemination.

LP
The Financial Times

Mario Monti, the European Union's competition commissioner, will tell  Glaxo SmithKline, the European pharmaceuticals company, that its policy of restricting the export of cheap medicines and drugs from the Spanish market to Britain is in breach of EU competition rules.

TD
On Tuesday Monti will ban the dual-pricing scheme suspended two years ago when the EU anti-trust investigation was first opened.

The European Commission, however, is unable to  fine the company because Glaxo had informed Brussels of its sales conditions to Spanish wholesalers and asked for approval. The Commission has the power to  fine companies up to 10% of their global revenues if they abuse EU anti-trust rules but not if they ask for clearance first.

Brussels is eager to act against what it sees as the fragmentation of the EU's single market by companies operating discriminatory pricing policies in different EU countries.  Glaxo had restricted exports of competitively priced drugs from Spain to Britain, where it charges much higher prices.

The pharmaceuticals industry has often complained that free trade in Europe is incompatible with the fact that member governments set national prices for medicines through centralised buying practices. Glaxo had argued that its system should be exempt from EU rules because it allowed it to increase profits and invest in the research and development of innovative new products.

CO         glxo : GlaxoSmithKline PLC
IN           i257 : Pharmaceuticals
NS         c31 : Marketing | c312 : External Markets | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE         eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
AN         Document lonfin0020010713dx5600201


















Page 6 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        EU to ban GlaxoSmithKline's dual pricing - source. BY         By David Lawsky
WC        456 words
PD         7 May 2001
ET         07:05 PM
SN         Reuters News
SC         LBA
LA         English
CY         (c) 2001 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, May 7 (Reuters) - European Competition Commissioner Mario Monti is set to announce on Tuesday that  GlaxoSmithKline Plc's dual-price system for drugs in Spain violates competition rules, a source familiar with the case told Reuters.

At a news conference set for 1100 GMT, Monti will announce that the  European Commission will bar the company from charging two different prices for the same drug, the source said. He will also make announcements on two other cases.

TD
The decision against  GlaxoSmithKline will come three years after the company asked for its policy to be reviewed.
A GlaxoSmithKline spokesman in London declined to comment.

The Commission said in 1999 that European Union rules barred the drug company from charging two different prices to Spanish wholesalers for pharmaceuticals - one for products sold in Spain and a higher price for drugs sold in other EU countries.
The Commission said then that it planned a formal ban on the dual price structure.

Drug companies argue that health regulations differ by country, leading to different prices, but last month Monti told drug companies the Commission had not changed its view on single pricing, or "parallel trade".

"The Commission continues to regard parallel trade as a driving force for market integration and existing national and price control regulations as insufficient justification for impeding such trade," he said at the time. Market integration is one of the key goals of the EU.

The Commission's views have not won support in the courts so far. The Court of First Instance, the lower chamber of the European Court of Justice, ruled that the Commission had failed to prove its case against German chemical and drugs giant Bayer AG. The Commission has appealed to the European Court of Justice.
On Monday, a Commission spokeswoman said that no matter what happens in the  GlaxoSmithKline
case there will be no  fine, because the company notified the Commission of its plans.

Monti will also make announcements on two cases of state aid in Germany. Except under special circumstances, state aid to companies is barred by the EU to create a level playing field across the EU.

Monti is expected formally to invite German authorities to propose solutions to the problem of illegal guarantees to German public banks. Monti sent the banks a letter in January and met with German officials on the issue in February.

Monti is also expected to announce approval of 250 million marks ($113.9 million) in state aid to
German builder Philipp Holzmann AG. Holzmann, which played a major role in rebuilding Germany after
the Second World War, lost money by making very low bids to win contracts for increasingly rare
building projects.
Page 7 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
CO        byer : Bayer AG | glxo : GlaxoSmithKline PLC | hlzmn : Philipp Holzmann International GmbH
IN          i25 : Chemicals | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | icre : Construction/Real Estate
NS         c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE         belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | medz : Mediterranean |
spain : Spain | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
AN         Document lba0000020010713dx5700ryk





























































Page 8 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        UPDATE 1-EU outlaws  GSK dual pricing, drugmaker may appeal. WC       346 words
PD        8 May 2001
ET        05:18 PM
SN        Reuters News
SC        LBA
LA        English
CY        (c) 2001 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, May 8 (Reuters) - The  European Commission said on Tuesday GlaxoSmithKline Plc would be barred from charging two different prices for drugs in Spain.

The Commission said European Union rules prohibited the drug company from charging one price to Spanish wholesalers for pharmaceuticals they sell inside Spain and a higher price to the same wholesalers for drugs they re-sell in other EU countries.

TD
"The European Commission has decided to prohibit the dual pricing system which  Glaxo Wellcome had introduced for all its pharmaceutical products in Spain," it said in a statement.
The company was not  fined since it had notified the Commission in 1998 of its plans.

GSK had argued that health regulations differ by country, leading to different prices. But European Competition Commissioner Mario Monti said such arguments were insufficient justification for impeding free cross-border trade between the 15 countries of the EU.

The Commission wants to stamp out discriminatory pricing in different European markets and sees parallel trade as a driving force for market integration.

But GSK - which said it was considering an appeal - countered that trying to create a single market in medicines was unrealistic and parallel trade simply lined the pockets of merchants.

"The benefits of parallel trade flow through to middlemen which means that valuable resources for research and development are diverted to the overall detriment of patients and the research-based industry," said Chris Viehbacher, GSK's head of pharmaceuticals in Europe.

GSK said the EU ruling would have no impact on the company's day-to-day business since the Spanish pricing arrangement had not been implemented, pending the decision of the Commission.

The Commission's views on parallel trade have not always won support in the courts. The Court of First Instance, the lower chamber of the European Court of Justice, ruled that the Commission had failed to prove its case against German chemical and drugs giant Bayer AG. The Commission has appealed to the European Court of Justice. (Additional reporting by Ben Hirschler in London).

CO       glxo : GlaxoSmithKline PLC
IN         i257 : Pharmaceuticals
NS        c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
RE        eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | spain : Spain | weurz : Western Europe
AN        Document lba0000020010713dx580084s






Page 9 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD    EC watchdog bans GSK's dual-price drugs policy
WC   162 words
PD    9 May 2001
SN    Evening News - Scotland
SC    EENS ED    CITY PG    B3
LA    English
CY    (Copyright 2001)

LP
EUROPE'S Competition Commissioner Mario Monti has barred  GlaxoSmithKline from the dual-pricing of wholesale drugs in Spain.

"The European Commission has decided to prohibit the dual pricing system which  Glaxo Wellcome had introduced for all its pharmaceutical products in Spain," it said in a statement.

TD
The Commission said EU rules barred GSK from charging one price to Spanish wholesalers for drugs they sell domestically and a higher price to the same wholesalers for the same drugs exported to the rest of the EU.

Fined

Mr Monti said: "Pharmaceutical companies cannot put into place distribution arrangements which perpetuate the partitioning of the single market into national markets."

GlaxoSmithKline notified the EU of its pricing system in 1998 and will not be  fined. GSK had cited large differences between Spain and its home market of Britain as an example, but the Commission rejected this argument, saying the system "cannot be justified on economic grounds".
CO   glxo : GlaxoSmithKline PLC
IN     i257 : Pharmaceuticals

NS    ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | eucom : European Commission | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE    eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | spain : Spain | weurz : Western Europe
IPD   European Commission
AN    Document eens000020010711dx5900a23




















Page 10 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD   EU/COMPETITION. WC  1,622 words
PD   9 May 2001
SN   Agence Europe
SC   AGEU
LA    English
CY   (c) 2001 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .

LP
COMMISSION ADOPTS THREE IMPORTANT DECISIONS CONCERNING COMPETITION (LANDESBANKEN, HOLZMANN AND  GLAXO) PRESENTED IN DETAIL BY COMMISSIONER MONTI - COMMISSION GRANTS GERMAN PUBLIC LAW CREDIT INSTITUTIONS UNTIL MARCH 2002.

TD
Brussels, 08/05/2001 (Agence Europe) - Other than the adopting of a joint proposal from Commissioners Pascal Lamy (trade), Erkki Liikanen (enterprise and information society) and Mario Monti (competition) presenting the European strategy in the face of the dispute opposing the EU against South Korea in the shipyard sector (see below), the Commission took, on 8 May, three important decisions concerning competition, commented upon at length before the press by Commissioner Monti, responsible for the dossier. The first concerns the State guarantees given to German public banks, with the formal request to the German government to modify, by March 2002, the system enforced to bring it into line with the European legislation concerning State aids; the second is the authorisation of restructuring aids in favour of Philipp Holzmann AG; the third in the ban on the dual pricing system practised by the pharmaceutical company Galxo Wellcome (GW) in Spain. Here, in the details, is the content of these three decisions:

* State guarantees for German public banks: after having redoubled over the last months the contacts with the German government over the system of State guarantees enjoyed by the public law credit institutions ("Anstaltslast" and "Ghewahtragerhaftung"), the  European Commission has just adopted a decision in which it calls in a formal manner on the German government to accept to modify the system of guarantees presently enforced to make it compatible with the system for State aid foreseen by the EC Treaty and to take the "appropriate measures". This decision had been raised last 26 April by Commissioner Monti following a meeting with the German Secretary of State for Finance Caio Koch-Weser meeting, which he qualified as "constructive" and "fruitful". Mr Monti had stated on this occasion that concrete positions where emerging and that it was appropriate, as a result, to anchor them in an established procedure (see EUROPE of 27 April). The German authorities are today invited to present, by the end of September, concrete proposals on the modifications that they intend to make. It is important to note, at this stage, that the German system existed before the entry into force of the EC Treaty in 1957, and that the Commission can only ask for modifications afterwards for the "existing" aids and not act retroactively for the previous aids. Let us recall that the procedure had been opened by a letter dated 26 January in which the Community competition services felt that, following a preliminary investigation launched following a complaint filed on 21 December 1999 by the European banking Federation, the system of guarantees in question constituted a form of State aid, incompatible with the common market.

The German government now has two months, as of the date of receiving the letter that has just been sent, to accept our request. It will then have until the end of September to present detailed proposals and end March (2002) to implement them, stated Mr Monti. It will generally retain the choice of specific solutions to favour, as long as they are in accordance with Community law, he added. The Commissioner indicated that a prorogation could nevertheless be a granted, if the Commission considers it necessary and justified, to allow for a harmonious transition of certain public banks. It is necessary to examine this case by case, adapted to a changing environment, he noted. The modifications should take place on the basis of a global model, foreseeing the abolition of the "Gewahrtragerhaftung" and a revision of the "Anstaltslast" in order for the State interventions to be subject to Commission checks. Within this global model, Germany will be able to prepare specific solution for certain banks (notably the break-up of the Westdeutsche Landesbank into two entities, see EUROPE of 12 and 13 February, p.11, but the Commission indicated that it does not have, at present, detailed information on all the solutions considered. If the government decided, improbably, to reject the appropriate measures proposed, the Commission would then find itself forced to enforce the


Page 11 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
following stage foreseen by the rule applicable to State aid, namely the implementation of a formal procedure against Germany.
*

Authorisation of aid in favour of Philipp Holzmann AG: The Commission also announced that its inquiry on the subject of aid to the German company Holzmann closed with a positive decision. It considers in fact
that the company's restructuring plan is of a kind that restores long-term viability, an essential condition set out in European rules on aid for the restructuring of companies in difficulty.
Holzmann had opened bankruptcy procedure on 23 November 1999 after having discovered debts of EUR
1.2 billion which had not been included in its accounts records. With the support of Chancellor Schroeder,
the government had announced in December this same year that the public bank, Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KfW), had announced a loan of EUR 76.7 million over 18-30 months, together with a.State
guarantee of EUR 63.9 million. On the basis of this commitment, the banks came to an agreement on an
improvement plan representing in total over EUR 1.5 billion, for financing in which they participated at over
90%. After an initial examination, the Commission had decided in January 2000 to open an indepth inquiry
as it doubted that measures envisaged were compatible with the common market, mainly concerning the
return to viability and the measures foreseen to offset competition distortion. In addition, the Commission
had received very little information on the plan envisaged, for which it only had a very summary version.
After having received the missing elements in April, the Commission was able to close the formal procedure
and decided to authorise aid. The decisive element was that aid was relatively low compared to all the
financial measures envisaged and competition distortion had been offset by measures of considerable
magnitude limiting the presence of the enterprise on the market with, above all, a reduction in the number
of staff, the closure of regional offices and disinvestment (rationalisation plans, sale or closure) in
subsidiaries where Holzmann was present, mainly in Germany but also in other Member States.
Commissioner Monti specified that this positive decision did not yet mean that the company was out of
trouble but that it now had a precious tool for getting back on the road to profitability. In order for the
operation to be a success, it is necessary for the measures envisaged to be taken very rapidly and for the
situation in the construction sector in Germany not to worsen. In its assessment, the Commission also
considered that Holzmann had modified the restructuring plan foreseen at the end of 2000 and that it had
obtained in this context, from banks, a new credit line of EUR 256 million, as well as a credit line of EUR
63.9 million from KfW, both for one year. These measures had become indispensable because of the delay
in the sale of assets as well as the fact that aid had not yet been released.

* Prohibition of dual pricing system by Glaxo Wellcome in Spain: Furthermore, the Commission decided to prohibit the dual pricing system that Glaxo Wellcome (GW) had brought in for all its pharmaceutical products in Spain in order to limit parallel trade within the single market. According to this system, GW makes it an obligation for its wholesalers in Spain to pay a higher price for products that they export to other Member States than for the same products intended for the Spanish home market. In 1998,  Glaxo
Wellcome (having merged with SmithklineBeecham) had notified these new sales conditions in Spain to the Commission for approval, but four complaints had been filed by wholesalers and wholesale associations for pharmaceutical products involved in this parallel trade. GW does not challenge the fact that the system in question tends to hamper parallel trade, but claims that it does not restrict competition. In its view, the price differences between Member States are a result of differences between the regulatory measures adopted
by each of the national governments, measures that not only concern the fixing of sales prices but also the reimbursement of pharmaceutical products. GW above all highlights the considerable price difference between Spain, where there are regulatory maximum prices, and the United Kingdom, where company profits are ceilinged but where companies are in principle free to fix their own prices ...

The Commission considers that this system is detrimental to the integration of the national markets and reduces price competition for GW products. It did not accept any of the arguments put forward by the company. On one hand, it considers that GW is not content with accepting prices fixed by Spanish authorities as, in fact, there is always a possibility of negotiation. For four products, GW has even negotiated price rises. On the other hand, the parallel trade level depends on other factors of a
non-regulatory kind such as exchange rate fluctuations. Finally, the Commission was not convinced by the argument that the losses suffered due to parallel trade seriously affect the R&D budget devoted to the development of medicines. "Pharmaceutical companies (...) cannot put in place distribution arrangements which perpetuate the partitioning of the single market into national markets", commented Mr Monti. Also, "parallel trade is often the only form of competition possible in the pharmaceuticals sector, given the
patents held by companies", he added. GW, which had no  fines imposed on it, will nonetheless have to put an immediate end to the system and must inform the Commission within two months of the measures it has taken to this end.
CO   hlzmn : Philipp Holzmann International GmbH
IN    i257 : Pharmaceuticals

Page 12 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
NS   c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE   asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany |
skorea : South Korea | weurz : Western Europe
AN   Document ageu000020010709dx59003qx

Search Summary

Text                                 "european commission" and fine* and glaxo* not "The transaction is expected to close by the early part of third-quarter 2001"
Date                                08/04/2001 to 08/06/2001
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                7
Timestamp                      7 April 2019 8:21 PM












































Page 13 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
