




French group fined 15 million ecus by European Commission ................................................................................ 2
EC Commission fines French group 15 million ecus ................................................................................................ 3
Some relief for oligopolists ...................................................................................................................................... 4
OK of Denmark denies operating in cartel, but will pay fine . ................................................................................... 8
TONY GRAY'S CITY VIEW - trepidation FOR tramp SHIPOWNERS OVER COMPETITION RULES. .................. 9
LAW COLUMN - Sanctions for breach of Community competition rules are considerable. .................................. 11























































Page 1 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     French group fined 15 million ecus by European Commission
WC    337 words
PD     1 April 1992
SN     Agence France-Presse
SC     AFPR
LA      English
CY     (Copyright 1992)

LP
BRUSSELS, April 1 (AFP) - The European Commission imposed a  fine of 15 million ecus (18.3 mn dollars) on Wednesday on French maritime  shipping group SCAC-Delmas-Vieljeux for abuse of a dominant economic position, a commission spokesman said.
He added that, in addition, smaller  fines totaling 300,000 ecus (372,000 dollars) had been ordered for 13
shipping firms in Belgium, Germany, Spain, Italy, Netherlands, Denmark and Slovenia.

TD
Danish shippers had accused the French group of having set up a cartel with some other shippers to eliminate competition on lines between the African west coast and Europe.

An EC spokesman said "It was necessary to clean up that sector, to make community companies competitive again.  Shipping a car between Antwerp and Abidjan, Ivory Coast, was as expensive as shipping a car between Tokyo and Abidjan".

EC competition commissioner Sir Leon Brittan said that the Commission's decision as well as pledges made by Bollore Group, of which SCAC-Delmas-Vieljeux is a subsidiary, would put an end to a particularly harmful cartel.

A commission spokesman said Bollore Group would be allowed to pay the  fine in four annual installments, if it wished, plus interest on the amounts in question.
Bollore Group chairman Vincent Bollore warned on Wednesday that the  fine would "sharply depress the
SCAC-Delmas-Vieljeux results in 1991, and hence group results". The group took control of
Delmas-Vieljeux in 1991.
Bollore has pledged to carry out its  shipping operations "in accordance with the EC's competition rules". The EC Commission said the group had decided, in particular, to pull its ships out of the COWAC,
MEWAC and UKWAL  shipping conferences by April 15. The conferences divide cargo traffic among the
members and set rates.

Bollore ships will take no part in those conferences or any other future conferences concerned with shipping between Europe and West Africa. They will not carry cargos for African countries or their shipping lines.
csg/hl AFP AFP SEQN-0330

IPD    Financial
AN     Document afpr000020011106do410135b










Page 2 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      EC Commission fines French group 15 million ecus
WC    98 words
PD     1 April 1992
SN     Agence France-Presse
SC     AFPR
LA      English
CY     (Copyright 1992)

LP
BRUSSELS, April 1 (AFP) - The European Commission imposed a  fine of 15 million ecus (18.3 mn dollars) on Wednesday on French maritime  shipping group SCAC-Delmas-Vieljeux for abuse of a dominant economic position, a commission spokesman said.
He added that smaller  fines had been ordered for a dozen  shipping firms in developing countries.

TD
Danish shippers had accused the French group of having set up a cartel with some other shippers to eliminate competition on lines between the African west coast and Europe.
cgs/hl AFP AFP SEQN-0249

IPD    Financial
AN     Document afpr000020011106do410135k





































Page 3 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD   Some relief for oligopolists
WC  2,031 words
PD   1 April 1992
SN   Business Law Brief Financial Times Business Information, Ltd.
SC   BSLB
LA    English
CY   COPYRIGHT 1992 by Financial Times Business Information, Ltd.

LP
In 1988, the  EC Commission found three large Italian glass makers in breach not only of article 85(1) of the EEC Treaty, but also of article 86. The two findings were based on the same allegations.

It is clear law that concerted practices under article 85 are only caught if the parties are independently in competition with each other: arrangements between companies which are structurally linked are not caught by the article.

TD
Article 86 is another matter. It clearly catches any abuse of a dominant position committed by two or more parts of the same corporate group, since a single enterprise can commit an abuse on its own. But can the market shares of independent companies be aggregated to create a dominant position if they act in
unison? The opening words - 'any abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position ...' - have not been fully explored in the context of independent companies which are not structurally linked. The Court of First Instance has now shed light on this. The bad news for oligopolists is that their market positions can be treated as one, but the good news is that it will be quite difficult for the Commission to establish this.

In the case of the Italian glass makers, the Commission decided that the three companies enjoyed a collective dominant position. It said that they 'presented themselves on the market as a single entity and not as individuals'. As a basis for this, the Commission cited a joint relationship with wholesalers and the
'systematic' exchange of their products. The abuse was said to consist largely of the setting of identical prices and discounts, for which they were  fined under article 85.
The three companies appealed against the decision (Cases T-68, 77 & 78/89, see p.18) and the Court of
First Instance delivered judgment on 10 March 1992.
The Court's view of collective dominance
The Court did not exclude the possibility of collective dominance, but it said in no uncertain terms that the
Commission had failed to establish it in this case.

The word 'undertaking' (enterprise) in article 86 must be given the same meaning as in article 85: two or more companies structurally linked in a group are 'one enterprise' and, conversely, 'two or more enterprises' are two or more independent companies capable of competing with each other.

To create a single dominant position, the links between independent companies may be economic, rather than structural. For example, a number of firms linked by a technology licensing agreement might be able to act without taking their competitors, customers or consumers into account (broadly, the definition of dominance).

The Court also gave the example of the  shipping conference, which can itself infringe article 86 under article 8 of Regulation 4056/86, although the conference agreement between the  shipping companies is exempt from article 85(1). Their market shares are aggregated to make a single market position.

On the other hand, both the dominant position and the abuse of it must be properly and fully established. It is no good simply 're-cycling' the facts of an article 85 infringement. This is what the Court said the Commission had done in this case.

To establish that a dominant position exists, the market must first be defined and analysed. The Court had already found the Commission's analysis to be defective in the context of article 85: it was almost entirely descriptive, and it was full of mistakes, omissions and uncertainties.



Page 4 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Under article 85, the Commission had treated the automotive market for flat glass as distinct from the non-automotive market. For article 86, however, it had treated the entire flat glass market as one. The Court found no grounds to justify this difference.
On the question of showing that the three companies had acted as a single entity, the Court said that the
Commission had done little more than assert this as a fact. It was certainly a long way from proving it.

The evidence adduced by the Commission failed to show that the alleged links with wholesalers were fostered by the glass makers to fix the highest possible prices. Indeed, it was just as capable of proving agreement between the wholesalers to keep prices down. The Commission had done nothing to compare the economic power of the three companies with the power of the buyers of glass (Fiat in particular).

The Commission's treatment of the companies' exchange of products as a form of market-sharing was worrying for many industries. In the case of glass, the makers wanted to provide their customers with a full range of products, but a differentiated order (colour, thickness, etc) might require a costly change-over of a production line, making the supply uneconomic. In these circumstances, one glass maker would buy the product from one of the others which had it available.

The Commission had alleged that these supplies had enabled the companies to exchange information about their prices and rebates. Although this might happen, the Court did not think that it was a serious question here in view of the allegation of price-fixing.

The market-sharing allegation called for a detailed analysis of the supplies alleged to have been made. From this emerged a quite contrary finding: one of the companies had transferred its exchange orders from one of the two remaining companies to the other because its prices were lower - clear evidence of competition.

The Court ruled that the Commission had not proved the establishment of a systematic exchange of products between three or even two of the companies, or that there was any common intention to share the market.

Since the Commission had failed to prove that the exchanges were in any way institutionalised between the companies, the exchanges could not form the type of linkage between the companies which would have to be proved in order to show collective dominance.
Conclusion

This strongly-worded judgment clearly requires a high standard of proof of tangible linkage between companies in order to show that they collectively hold a dominant position. It is absolutely clear that concerted behaviour in the article 85 sense is not enough on its own to establish the linkage.

On the other hand, even an individual exemption will not prevent a linkage giving rise to collective dominance. This is not in itself unlawful, but it puts the participants in a more precarious position.

Oligopolistic industries - which in practice will be any industry where the price of entering the market is a huge investment - have marginally less to fear than before 10 March: duplication of the same facts as evidence of breach of both Treaty articles would have given the Commission two bites of every cherry.

Since the Commission was found to have done such a poor job in reasoning and supporting its decision, there will be further opportunities for arguing the precise scope of abuse of collective dominance, though the Court's language will hardly encourage a repetition of the Commission's inventiveness in this case.

Product exchanges between oligopolists are potentially risky. The Court acknowledged that they might, in appropriate circumstances, be seen as a means of exchanging information. Worse, 'institutionalised' exchanges might be found to be a means of sharing out markets. In any event, oligopolists have to be extremely vigilant in keeping their contacts with competitors at arms' length in view of the Polypropylene judgments (see BLB January 1992, p.3).

The Court was quite scathing about the Commission's findings (e.g. its lack of consideration of the effect of competition from non-EC imports). It did uphold one or two of them, but reduced the  fines on the two companies involved from seven to one million ECU (Fabbrica Pisana) and from 4.7 million to 671,428 ECU (Societa Italiana Vetro). The  fine on Vernante Pennitalia, which was exonerated of all the wrong- doing alleged in the decision, was quashed.

In the course of adjudicating on the article 85 charges, the Court said that it has power to annul part only of a Commission decision as part of its supervisory function in relation to the other EC institutions. This does not include any power to alter the decision, however. Amendment by the Court would upset the balance between the institutions and also violate due process.

Page 5 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The Court's literary style

The Court of First Instance must do something about the presentation of its judgments. It is intolerable that a judgment of 178 typed pages (377 paragraphs) should appear without any kind of summary or indication of what has been decided, and no signposts within the document as to where to look for the substance (although starting at the end continues to be good policy).

Some years ago, under the presidency of Lord Mackenzie Stuart, the senior Court radically abbreviated its judgments. Admittedly, it has sometimes been almost too terse, giving readers just one or two delphic sentences that have to construed like a statute or the Treaty (e.g. the Philip Morris and Marleasing cases).

The senior Court separates its judgment from the 'report for the hearing', to which most of the facts and arguments are consigned for reference at leisure. The long-term understanding of a judgment can involve some cross-reference between the two, and between them and the Advocate General's opinion, but the gist of the Court's ruling can usually be gleaned from a reading measured in minutes.

The junior Court bundles together all the facts, procedure, argument and judgment in one unwieldy manuscript, often presenting the parties' arguments and its judgment separately on each issue, so that the effort of turning the pages is alone quite time-consuming. It sometimes gives a table of contents, which helps a little.

The five pages of the Flat Glass judgment on article 86 are not in themselves excessive, nor is it generally the worst example of the genre. But it is a classic example of the lawyer's approach to communication.

Commercial publishers cannot get away with simply throwing undigested material at the reader, who has the good sense not to buy it. Yet the purpose of communicating (orally or in writing) is to get the message inside the speaker's head over to the reader accurately and in the most efficient way. Helping people to do this is one of the main purposes of education. In ordinary life it is the speaker who suffers by failure to communicate efficiently, not the listener or reader.

When it comes to law, the roles are reversed. Lawyers know that their words must be understood, however difficult they make them, because the consequences of not doing so will harm the person hearing the message, not the lawyer. Lawyers have power.

There is an advantage in obscurity - it maintains the mystique of the law, and the income of lawyers. But it is an inexcusable discourtesy to the rest of the world. Lawyers in every sphere should pay attention to the language used and also to its orderly presentation.

Judges are not in fact peculiarly to blame, at least in relation to language. They are often, indeed, more lucid than other lawyers - legislative draftsmen, lawyers advising their clients, many legal writers. But, bearing in mind the importance of what they say, the judges have a peculiar duty to make their thoughts transparent to other lawyers. All the CFI's judgments really need is a good editor. The collective legal bill to business for a judgment such as Italian Flat Glass must be immense.
The judgment is divided up as follows:
- the facts and the Commission's decision (pages 4-23);
- the proceedings before the Court (24-28);
- summary of the parties' pleadings in telegraphic form (29-32);
- procedural arguments and their dismissal (33-38);
- summary of the issues (39-43);
- analysis of the market (44-71):
- findings of fact and the evidence (72-149): (non-automotive sector
- 72-112; automotive 113-149);
- the Court's assessment (150-173);
article 85 (150-161),
article 86 - parties' arguments (162-168),
the Court's judgment on article 86 (169-173);

Page 6 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
- fines, costs, the court's order in telegraphic form (174-178).
AN   Document bslb000020011107do410005h




































































Page 7 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD   OK of Denmark denies operating in cartel, but will pay fine. WC   99 words
PD    3 April 1992
SN    Børsen
SC    BN
PG   6
LA    English
CY    (c) DAGBLADET BØRSEN 1992

LP
OK (Det Ostasiatiske Kompagni, EAC, East Asiatic) has denied that it has been involved in any kind of cartel in western Africa. However, the group has said it will pay the fine of around DKr 420,000 imposed by the EC Commission. The fine relates to OK's west African shipping company EAC-WAS, which was sold to Compagnie Maritime Belge in 1988. OK was one of fourteen companies  fined a total of DKr 2.5m for operating a cartel in western Africa.
[Original article approx 400 words]

CO   dok : Det Ostasiatiske Kompagni A/S | dokx :
IN     i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale

NS    c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE    den : Denmark | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe
AN   Document bn00000020011122do43009l8



































Page 8 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        TONY GRAY'S CITY VIEW - trepidation FOR tramp SHIPOWNERS OVER COMPETITION RULES. WC       881 words
PD        23 April 1992
SN        Lloyd's List International
SC        LL
PG        6
LA        English
CY        (c) 1992 of Lloyd's of London Press Limited

LP
A fleeting remark by European competition commissioner Sir Leon Brittan will be sending shivers down the spines of tramp  shipowners.

Sir Leon has raised the dreaded issue of the application of the European Community's competition rules to tramp shipping.

TD
After years of fighting attempts to foist the UN  liner code on bulk shipping, and fears over the outcome of the talks on the General Agreement on Trade in Services, tramp owners will find it hard to smile at the prospect of a more active EC in the marketplace.

But there are good reasons for believing that Sir Leon's remark, contained in an address to the Centre for European Policy Studies, will not herald a new regulatory onslaught.

For the record, this is what Sir Leon said: "The commission has no power at present to apply the competition rules, for instance, to cabotage, to tramp  shipping, or to air transport within a member state or to third countries.

"The commission has already made proposals to close these gaps for air transport, and proposals to do likewise in shipping will follow in due course."

In tramp shipping, which comprises bulk and break-bulk  shipping which does not operate on regular services, Sir Leon's concern will centre on the pooling agreements to which the industry is partial.
Essentially, these fall into two categories:

joint management pools, which enable members to harness economies of scale in purchasing management expertise;

cargo space pools, which allow members to bid for large contracts of affreightment or specialised cargoes.

It seems unlikely that either kind can be accused of being anti-competitive or of having a negative effect on trade between EC member states, the two crucial yardsticks.

Management pools are harmless enough although if their remit was extended into a joint marketing strategy this would change their complexion.

As for cargo space pools, the key measure must surely be their size, and whether this places them in a position to manipulate the market. In the mainstream of tramp  shipping, however, pools are not of a scale which threatens competition and they by no means wield influence on a par with the conference system in liner shipping.

Although the relationship between  liner shipping and the EC is far from cosy, there is encouragement for tramp shipowners here.

Liner conferences enjoy a broad block exemption from cartel prohibition under the Treaty of Rome, reflecting the special nature of regular international  shipping services. However, this has not prevented

Page 9 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
the conferences crossing swords with the EC, which has attached strict obligations to the block exemption.

The most striking example of this friction came just weeks ago when the European Commission imposed its first  fines on shipping companies, notably the FFr 105m ($18.75m) on SCAC-Delmas-Vieljeux which was accused of attempting to corner the cargo market between Europe and west and central Africa though an illegal cartel.

Sir Leon made it clear that conferences and consortia, while not considered intrinsically anti-competitive, are only safe from punitive action if there is effective competition from independent lines and the benefits of collaboration are passed on to their customers. This is ground on which tramp  shipowners could mount an effective argument.

Some pundits have suggested that tramp  shipping pools should, in the absence of a block exemption for their sector of the industry, rush to secure individual exemptions. Sir Leon's resurrection of the competition issue can only give more credibility to this view.

It would be foolish to assert that tramp  shipping, for all its competitive qualities, should escape scrutiny by the EC Commission. Shipowners can consider themselves lucky to have had a trouble free ride for so long.

Historically, there have been industry-wide schemes, designed to influence the charter market in times of depression, which if repeated would give rise to concern. A contemporary equivalent would be Stemoco's plan to garner the support of the world's tanker owners for a fund that would excise a major chunk of the very large crude carrier fleet.

But these are exceptional cases that do deserve special attention, and not the normal pooling arrangements found in bulk  shipping. The commission should avoid unnecessary meddling with a market that has served the consumer well.

A few basic points about the industry should ease any fears Sir Leon might have about competition being restricted.

Tramp shipping is an extremely fragmented industry and one which can be entered with ease. Indeed, anyone with enough finance to buy a cheap secondhand vessel will discover a whole host of new friends willing to smooth their way into the industry by helping with the crewing, managing and chartering arrangements.

As a result tramp  shipping is often cited as one of the most perfect examples of the free mark et system in operation. The industry is not without sin, but on the issue of competition it is on the side of the
angels.

If Sir Leon still remains unconvinced of tramp  shipping's exemplary competitive credentials, he could do worse than consult the European Shippers' Councils, a fierce critic of some agreements in  liner             shipping, regarding the status of its tramp/bulk committee: it is dormant.
(c) of Lloyds of London Press Limited 1992.
IN         i74 : Marine Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

NS        c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN        Document ll00000020011123do4n0001m














Page 10 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     LAW COLUMN - Sanctions for breach of Community competition rules are considerable. BY      By Keith Hendry and Rob Murray
WC    1,003 words
PD     24 April 1992
SN     Lloyd's List International
SC     LL
PG     9
LA      English
CY     (c) 1992 of Lloyd's of London Press Limited

LP
Brussels' imposition of  fines totalling more than #10m on 17  shipping companies has demonstrated its determination to ensure respect for community rules of competition in the maritime sector.

The EC Commission adopted its first decision applying EC competition rules to the maritime sector at the beginning of this month and  fined 17 shipping companies operating on routes between France and 11
Central and West African states (Lloyd's List April 2).

TD
Shipowners' committees shared the market and fixed prices in what Sir Leon Brittan, the commissioner responsible, described as "a particularly detrimental cartel".

The largest single  fine, over #8m, was imposed on the French Bollore group, the "ringleader" responsible for "grave infringements" of EC competition law. (The Decision has not yet been published).

Sir Leon Brittan stated that this case "demonstrates the commission's determination to ensure respect for community rules of competition in this sector". The commission is reportedly investigating four other  liner conferences covering trades between Europe and Africa and Europe and the US. Further investigations are expected.

The development of competition in the common market and of a common transport policy are fundamental objectives of the EC. The Treaty of Rome contains provisions on both, but for some time there was uncertainty as to whether the competition rules applied to sea transport. This was because the treaty provisions on transport distinguished between the traditional inland methods of transport of the original six continental member states and externally-orientated forms of transport; air transport and shipping. Furthermore, when the commission adopted Regulation 17/62, which laid down detailed rules for the general application of the competition rules, it excepted air and sea transport.

The Court of Justice of the European Communities made it clear some years ago that the Treaty provisions in general, including those on competition, apply generally to sea transport, and not just those provisions in the Treaty chapter on transport. (Commission v French Republic, Case 167/73, Commission v Belgium, Case 156/77 and Ministere Public v Asjes, joined Cases 209-13/84").
The EC competition rules in the maritime sector are contained in Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty. Article
85 (1) prohibits anti-competitive agreements or practices which may affect trade between member states
and which have as their object or effect the restriction or distortion of competition within the common
market.

Such agreements/practices are void (Article 85 (2)) unless they can be justified under various criteria set out in Article 85 (3). Only the commission can decide if an agreement notified to it can be exempted under Article 85 (3).

Article 86 prohibits abuses by companies of their dominance in the common market (or a substantial part of it) where such abuse may affect inter-state trade. There is no possibility of exemption.

It was not until 1986 that the member states adopted Council Regulation 4056/86 which, as the equivalent of Regulation 17/62, sets out detailed substantive and procedural rules for the application of the competition rules to sea transport.
Page 11 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
(More recently, the Council adopted Regulation 479/92, not relevant to this case, which enables the commission to grant a block exemption, lasting five years, for certain consortia agreements. The commission regulation, not yet adopted, may apply with retroactive effect.)

The regulation entered into force on July 1, 1987, and applies to international maritime transport services from or to one or more community ports, excluding tramp vessel services. It therefore excludes cabotage services.

The regulation grants block exemptions from the competition rules to  liner conferences, agreements between liner conferences and transport users and to certain technical agreements. If an agreement/practice falls precisely within the terms of the block exemption if need not be notified to the commission for individual exemption.

Unusually, these block exemptions are not limited in time. Nor is individual notification of agreements which fall outside the block exemptions compulsory. This reflects the need to tie in the EC regime with the self-regulatory system under the UN  Liner Code.

The block exemption for  liner conferences covers the typical conference. It is subject to a condition, that the conference applies objectively justified and non-discriminatory rates and conditions of carriage, and a number of obligations for example, consultation with shippers and as regards loyalty rebate systems.

The commission monitors conferences and can withdraw the benefit of the block exemption, for example, if a conference eliminates actual or potential competition in a trade. The commission can also impose obligations on a confer ence in order to secure access for non-conference lines.

As regards procedural rules and powers, the regulation is almost identical to Regulation 17/62: The commission can require that businesses and governments supply information and can conduct
on-the-spot investigations, ("dawn raids"): these powers were used in the present case. The commission can impose fines of up to 10% of group worldwide turnover for infringement of the rules, and much smaller fines for failure to provide information or for providing misleading or inaccurate information. (The latter occurred in this case: see Commission Decision 91/55/EEC).

The commission is committed to enforcing the competition rules in the maritime sector. Sir Leon Brittan reportedly wanted to impose  fines of over #20m in this case but they were reduced because this is the first case in this sector and because the Bollore group has given extensive undertakings to open up competition. The first mitigating factor no longer applies.

It is vital that  shipping operators be aware of EC competition rules and that the sanctions for breach are considerable. Operators should review their current agreements/practices and consider notifying those which fall outside the block exemptions but which may merit individual exemption. Other agreements/practices may be so anti-competitive as to require termination.
Keith Hendry is a partner and Rob Murray is a solicitor with Clifford Chance's EC Unit in Brussels. (c) of Lloyds of London Press Limited 1992.
IN       i74 : Marine Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

NS     c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE     eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN     Document ll00000020011123do4o000c1

Search Summary

Text                                 ("european commisson" or "EC commission") and fine* and (liner* or container* or shipping or shipowners)
Date                                01/03/1992 to 01/05/1992
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions
Page 12 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Language                       All Languages
Results Found                6
Timestamp                      12 April 2019 1:14 PM



































































Page 13 of 13 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
