




EU formally bans defunct Europe-Asia ship pact. ................................................................................................... 2
Defunct cargo pact is outlawed by Brussels. ........................................................................................................... 4

EU/COMPETITION  -  COMMISSION  BANS  AGREEMENT  REGULATING  CAPACITY  IN  THE  SHIPPING SECTOR BETWEEN EUROPE AND ASIA.............................................................................................................. 6
EC bans defunct shipping agreement to deter others. ............................................................................................. 7
SHIPPING - COMMISSION CLAMPS DOWN ON ANOTHER LINER AGREEMENT . ........................................... 9
New era in liner shipping begins. ........................................................................................................................... 11






















































Page 1 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      EU formally bans defunct  Europe-Asia  ship pact. WC     307 words
PD      10 May 1999
ET       02:51 PM
SN      Reuters News
SC      LBA
LA       English
CY      (c) 1999 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, May 10 (Reuters) - The European Commission said on Monday it had formally banned a now-defunct  agreement between leading container shipping lines to limit capacity on routes from Europe to the Far East.

The accord, the Europe Asia Trades  Agreement  (EATA), was abandoned in 1997, but the Commission said it wanted to adopt a formal decision to increase legal certainty and guide national courts if third parties claimed damages from the arrangements.

TD
"The Commission has never permitted  capacity management agreements  on the export trades to the
European Union from Asia or the USA respectively," it said in a statement.
The Commission, the European Union's competition watchdog, noted it had banned the Trans-Atlantic
Agreement,  a similar accord involving transatlantic  shipping trade, in 1994.

The EATA, set up in 1992 in an attempt to increase freight rates, allowed for capacity limitation talks between Far Eastern Freight Conference members and non-conference lines.

The Commission said that EATA members had withdrawn up to 17 percent of the capacity of certain vessels, with EU exporters bearing the brunt of the impact since only eastbound routes were restricted.

EATA announced in September 1997 that it had scrapped the accord, with one of its officials saying it had not been used since 1993.

The EATA members included Cho Yang  Shipping Co Ltd, DSR-Senator Lines GmbH, Evergreen Marine Corp (Taiwan) Ltd , Hanjin  Shipping Co Ltd , Hapag-Lloyd Container  Linie GmbH , Hyundai Merchant Marine Co , Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd , Malaysian International Shipping Corp Bhd , Mitsui O.S.K. Line Ltd , Neptune Orient Lines Ltd , Nippon Yusen KK , Orient Overseas Container  Line Ltd , P&O Nedlloyd and Yangming Marine  Transport Corp . ((Brussels Newsroom, +322 287 6830, fax +322 230 5573,
e-mail brussels.newsroom@reuters.com)).
(C) Reuters Limited 1999.

CO      evmar : Evergreen Marine Corporation | haploy : Hapag-Lloyd AG | hmerch : Hyundai Merchant Marine
Co Ltd | kline : Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd | krshpp : Hanjin Shipping Holdings Company Limited | miship
: MISC Bhd | mitosk : Mitsui OSK Lines Limited | nedl : Koninklijke P&O Nedlloyd N.V. | nipysn : Nippon
Yusen KK | nol : Neptune Orient Lines Limited | ooc : Orient Overseas (International) Limited | podf : The
Peninsular And Oriental Steam Navigation Co | yngmng : Yang Ming Marine Transport Corporation
IN        i74 : Marine Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

NS      c24 : Capacity/Facilities | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | e512 : Physical Trade | ecat : Economic News | eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE      asiaz : Asia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe
| gfr : Germany | hkong : Hong Kong | jap : Japan | malay : Malaysia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | taiwan :
Taiwan | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
AN      Document lba0000020010908dv5a01dyy
Page 2 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.







































































Page 3 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD         Defunct cargo pact is outlawed  by Brussels. WC         362 words
PD          11 May 1999
SN          Lloyd's List International
SC          LL
LA          English
CY          (c) 1999 of Lloyd's of London Press Limited

LP
Janet Porter
A capacity  management  agreement between lines operating in the Europe/Asia trades disbanded in
1997 was formally outlawed by the European Commission yesterday.

TD
The Europe Asia Trades  Agreement,  formed in 1992 when the trades from Europe to Asia were particularly depressed, was subsequently scrapped as cargo volumes recovered.

However the agreement, which was notified to Brussels, remained the subject of an investigation because of the nature of the pact.

The European Commission said it had adopted a formal decision "to increase legal certainty in the interest both of liner conferences and third parties who seek redress before a national court".
Both members of the Far Eastern Freight Conference and independent carriers participated in the
agreement to withhold cargo space from the market.

However, the  capacity management  programme was suspended well before the  agreement was finally terminated.
Brussels issued a statement of objections to the  agreement in 1994.

Subsequently the commission held oral hearings that enabled interested partues to put their points of view in person.
The commission noted yesterday that the Trans-Atlantic Agreement, which also included a capacity  
management  programme, was prohibited in 1994.

In the case of the Europe Asia Trades  Agreement,  up to 17% of capacity on certain vessels was withdrawn, the commission said in a statement.
On all occasions, only the supply of eastbound capacity was restricted.

This produced the result that European exporters bore the full brunt of the anti-competitive effects of the agreement.

As well as wanting to provide legal clarity, the commission said the ruling would benefit national courts and competition authorities of member states in the event of any third party seeking redress under national law for any harm they may have suffered.

Brussels also said it was important to adopt a formal decision "for the purpose of future enforcement action".

Since the  agreement was dissolved in September 1997, no secretariat exists representing the member lines any more.

Former participants included independent carriers Evergreen and Cho Yang as well as conference lines.


Page 4 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Fifteen lines were party to the  agreement at the time of its termination.
(c) of Lloyd's of London Press Limited 1999.
IN           i74 : Marine Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

NS          c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE          eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN         Document ll00000020010907dv5b008up




























































Page 5 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD   EU/COMPETITION - COMMISSION BANS AGREEMENT REGULATING CAPACITY IN THE SHIPPING SECTOR BETWEEN EUROPE AND ASIA.
WC  138 words
PD   11 May 1999
SN   Agence Europe
SC   AGEU
LA    English
CY   (c) 1999 Agence EUROPE, Brussels Not Available for Re-dissemination. .

LP
Brussels, 10/05/1999 (Agence Europe) - The  European Commission has decided to prohibit the Europe Asia Trades Agreement  (EATA), the purpose of which was to increase prices by establishing a capacity management  programme in scheduled maritime transport services for the carriage of containerised cargo, between North Europe and the Far East. The Commission has never authorised agreements  of this type on export trades to the European Union from Asia or the USA respectively. The contracting parties terminated the  agreement in September 1997 but the Commission deemed it indispensable to adopt a formal decision to strengthen case law and increase legal certainty in regard to application of competition law in the maritime transport sector.
Not Available for Re-dissemination.

TD
(c) Agence EUROPE, Brussels 1999.

IN     i74 : Marine Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
NS   c24 : Capacity/Facilities | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European
Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE   asia : | asiaz : Asia | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN   Document ageu000020010831dv5b005ul





























Page 6 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       EC bans defunct  shipping agreement to deter others. WC      396 words
PD       11 May 1999
SN       JoC Week SC      JLCOMM LA       English
CY       (c) Copyright 1999, The Journal of Commerce Inc. All Rights Reserved

LP
May 11, 1999
BY CHRIS JOHNSTONE

TD
JOURNAL OF COMMERCE SPECIAL

BRUSSELS - The European Commission has banned an already defunct  container shipping              capacity management  agreement, in a move aimed at deterring similar deals and aiding any legal action by shippers or others for damage already caused.

The 18 shipping companies in the defunct Europe-Asia Trades Agreement  risk being fined if they violate the Commission decision by joining new capacity agreements,  said a competition official.
"Recidivism is a recognized reason for increased fines," he explained.
The case against the EATA involved a much deeper examination of capacity

agreements  that the similar but broader Commission proceedings against the Trans-Atlantic  Agreement
a few years ago.

The decision is helping to spell out European policy towards capacity  management  and could help as guidance if damages or fines are sought against the shipping companies in national courts or other competition authorities, the Commission added in a statement.

The European Community Shipowners' Association played down the Commission move saying it was in line with expectations and "just created legal clarity."

The EATA  agreement sparked fierce complaints from British, French, Japanese shippers' councils and the European Shippers' Council, but there are no pending actions stemming from the  agreement against carriers that were members of it, a spokeswoman for the Brussels-based European Shippers' Council said.
The EATA  agreement limited capacity for vessels operating eastbound from Europe to Asia via the Suez
Canal with the aim of improving revenue for carriers by "remedying consistently depressed freight rates."

Maximum capacity allowances were set for each company, sometimes within specific geographical limits, with a fine or capacity charge levied if the limits were exceeded. No part of the  agreement impinged on companies rights to set rates independently.

Revenue from charges were distributed between the companies. The fixed cost to the companies of leaving capacity unused was $80 million in 1993, according to Commission figures.

Shipping lines involved in EATA were: CGM Orient SA, Hapag-Lloyd, Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., AP Moller-Maersk Line, Malaysian International  Shipping Corporation, Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd., Nedlloyd, Neptune Orient Line, Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha, Oriental Overseas  Container  Line, P&O Container  Line, Cho Yang  Shipping, Deutsche Seereederei Rostock, Evergreen Marine Corp., Hanjin Shipping Co., Hyundai Merchant Marine, Senator Linie, and Yangming Marine  Transport Co.

Page 7 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Copyright 1999, The Journal of Commerce Inc.
IN        i74 : Marine Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

NS       c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE       eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
AN       Document jlcomm0020011213dv5b007b1






























































Page 8 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD    SHIPPING - COMMISSION CLAMPS DOWN ON ANOTHER LINER AGREEMENT. WC   677 words
PD    13 May 1999
SN    European Report
SC    EURREP
LA    English
CY    (c) 1999 European Report.

LP
Showing no signs of weakening its tough stance on anti-competitive  liner-shipping arrangements, the European Commission adopted on May 10 a Decision prohibiting the now defunct Europe Asia Trades Agreement  (EATA) - an Agreement  which had shored up prices by establishing a  capacity management programme for scheduled container cargo shipment services from North Europe to the Far East. The Commission has never permitted capacity  management  agreements  on export trade to the European Union from Asia or the United States. Although EATA was in fact wound up in September 1997, the Commission still felt it necessary to adopt a formal Decision "to increase legal certainty in the interest both of liner conferences and third parties who seek redress before a national court",it clarified in a statement.

TD
A capacity management  programme is an agreement under which the parties agree not to use a proportion of the space on their vessels for the carriage of goods in a particular trade. The proportion set aside is part of the forecast excess of supply over demand. In 1994, the Commission prohibited a similar arrangement on the transatlantic trades: the Trans-Atlantic  Agreement  (TAA).

In the case of the EATA, up to 17% of the capacity of certain vessels was withdrawn from supply in the shipping companies' effort to buoy up prices. The investigations carried out by the Commission's competition officials to check whether there was any infringement of Articles 85 (restrictive business agreements)  or 86 (abuse of dominant position) revealed that, on all occasions, only the supply of Eastbound capacity was restricted with the result that EU exporters had to bear the brunt of the
anti-competitive effects of the EATA. Whereas the EATA only operated Eastbound, the TAA only operated Westbound. Therefore, Community exporters were penalised twice by  capacity management                    agreements which have never been permitted on the export trades from the US to the EU or on cargo trade from Asia to the EU.

A negative Decision in this case may seem a little out of date now that the contested  Agreement  has been disbanded, but the Commission has its reasons, not least of which is to show that it intends to enforce the law at a time when a new transatlantic  liner conference is in the making. The Commission's
Directorate-General for Competition is scrutinising both the proposed North Atlantic  Agreement  and amendments to the existing Trans-Atlantic Conference  Agreement  (TACA), but these new pacts have already raised competition concerns (see European Report Number 2394). While the Commission has decided against issuing a new set of rules for  liner shipping conferences, it is anxious to give  shipping companies some kind of benchmark to follow. After last year's heavy fines, many  shipping companies are reluctant to sign up to a new  Agreement  before the Commission has made its position clear.

It has thus adopted a Decision against the former EATA as it feels the  Agreement's  signatories are likely to benefit from the increased legal certainty arising from a formal Commission Decision concerning the practices in question. Moreover, national courts and competition authorities in the individual Member States may benefit from a clear statement of the Commission's position in the event of any third party
seeking compensation under national law for any damage incurred from unfair pricing practices. And while the terms of the new North Atlantic Agreement  have been formally notified, the EU Regulation on the application of Articles 85 and 86 in the shipping sector does not actually require notification of an agreement or arrangement for the Commission to exempt it. "Therefore, a formal Commission Decision concerning the practices in question also increases legal certainty to the benefit of other  liner shipping companies", the EU executive said. And, finally, "in view of the practice of the Commission to increase the penalties imposed in the case of recidivist infringement of Community competition law, it is important that a formal Decision be adopted in this case for the purposes of future enforcement action".


Page 9 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
(c) European Report 1999.
IN     i74 : Marine Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

NS    c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | eec : European Union | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | ocat : International
Pol-Econ Organizations
RE    asia : | asiaz : Asia | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | usa : United States | usaz : Arizona | usw : Western U.S. | weurz : Western Europe
AN    Document eurrep0020010905dv5d001iy




























































Page 10 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        New era in liner shipping begins. BY         By David Hughes.
WC       809 words
PD        17 May 1999
SN        The Shipping Times
SC        SHIPTI
LA         English
CY        (c) 1999 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

LP
THE interesting times continue in  liner shipping. While the Far Eastern Freight Conference (FEFC) continues to push up rates on both legs of the Europe-Asia trade, each week seems to reveal more signs that the old order that FEFC typifies is passing rapidly into the history books.

Last week's FEFC statement, concerning the Eastbound Management  Agreement  (EMA), was significant in several ways. Perhaps most importantly, it was another indicator that confidence in the Asian economies is returning. The statement noted: "The trade has continued to recover and economic indicators in Asia are increasingly positive."

TD
The FEFC went on to state that volumes lifted by EMA lines in the first quarter of this year were up about 20 per cent on the same period in 1998.

Of course, the primary purpose of the FEFC statement was to announce rate increases, of US$150 (S$255) a box (twentyor forty-footer) on July 1 and a further US$200 per box from Oct 1.

These rises, or restorations, come after a near collapse of volumes and rates for cargoes into Asia at the height of the currency crisis and follow an initial move to recover revenue last month.

The FEFC had a nice diplomatic line in its explanation of its policy: "The lines were grateful that the April restoration met with understanding from many customers who had realised that the lines cannot sustain rates at levels to which they had dropped during the Asian crisis."

The diplomatic language continued: "However, there have been clear indications from the trade that the lines' future rating intentions now need to be publicised for a longer period ahead so that shippers can take these into account in their planning." Presumably that is polite code for "Lots of shippers went ballistic when we told them the rates were going up in a couple of months' time".

Anyway, the FEFC said it would not be imposing any rate rises, other than those already announced, before April next year "unless there are unforeseen circumstances".
But while the FEFC deals with the nitty gritty of tariff increases, the changing nature of  liner shipping
has been demonstrated by the rush to sign confidential service  agreements.
International  container carrier APL, owned by Singapore's Neptune Orient Lines, had concluded nearly
400 confidential contracts on the Asia-US west coast by the time the US ocean  shipping deregulation
came into effect on May 1. That was very much in line with Mitsui OSK's experience, reported in this
column a few weeks a go.

Although the  European Commission (EC) has yet to issue clear rules on the conduct of  liner conferences, it is clear that service contracts are to be allowed and that they will be confidential if that is what the shipper wants. The indications are that shippers do, in general, want confidentiality.

So detailed tariff management of the sort being carried out by FEFC is likely to become less and less relevant as fewer shippers, and probably no large shippers, pay according to the tariff.

It is interesting, and rather ironic, that the first rush of confidential service contracts with APL has served to lock in major rate increases on the Asia-US trans-Pacific trade.

Page 11 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Where there is overcapacity on trades, some large shippers will get especially good rates but shippers in general may soon be disappointed if they thought deregulation would bring substantial
across-the-board price cuts.

There simply is not the fat left in the  liner shipping industry any more to allow deregulation to bring big customer benefits. There has not been for a long time.

While the EC has yet to give clear guidance on just what it will allow conferences to do, it is now crystal clear that  capacity management agreements  are beyond the pale.

The EC ruled last week that the Europe Asia Trades  Agreement,  which operated in the early nineties and included both FEFC members and outsiders, was illegal.

Capacity management,  by limiting the number of slots offered, was the  containerisation era equivalent of the old conference tool of restricting vessel numbers.

Nowadays, capacity management  can only be in the form of line executives thinking before ordering newbuildings. While returns are at current levels, and assuming expansion just to grab extra market share is a thing of the past, newbuildings are now likely to stay at sensible levels - for a while.

In the longer run, a return to adequate levels of profitability by the major lines is likely to stimulate more ordering. Given continued low newbuilding prices and a willingness on the part of bankers to lend money, both fairly safe assumptions, overcapacity will eventually appear once more and shippers will yet again have the whip hand. But we have not reached that point yet.
(c) 1999 Singapore Press Holdings Limited.
IN          i74 : Marine Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
NS        c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
RE        asia : | asiaz : Asia | eur : | eurz : Europe | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | singp : Singapore
AN        Document shipti0020010910dv5h000ad

Search Summary

Text                                 "european commission" and (agreement* or cartel or fixing or sharing "exchange of information") and (maritime or transport or container* or shipping or liner*) and "capacity management" not celex* not "Certainly, the prospect of another serious confrontation with European shippers"
Date                                30/03/1999 to 30/05/1999
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                6
Timestamp                      9 April 2019 7:28 PM














Page 12 of 12 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
