




United Technologies at Citigroup Global Industrial Manufacturing Conference - Final ........................................... 2
No convictions for competition law. ....................................................................................................................... 10
Finland: Kone to appeal EU fines ........................................................................................................................... 12
Victims encouraged to take legal stand on cartels ................................................................................................ 13



























































Page 1 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.




HD     United Technologies at Citigroup Global Industrial Manufacturing Conference  - Final
WC    7,603 words
PD     7 March 2007
SN     Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
SC     FNDW
LA     English
CY     © Voxant Inc. All rights reserved.

LP
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: George, thank you, and it's nice to be here with this group. I'm going to work from the floor if that's okay with all of you and give you about 20 charts. Just a quick introduction, we had our regular investor meeting, it must be 10 days ago, and I'm sure a bunch of you were in the room then. And there's no significant change in the last couple of weeks. Everything looks good for the year. So let me try to quickly reprise what happened in that investor meeting and just give you a couple of charts as well. To key up some conversation and discussion. I'll try and leave half of this 40-minute session. I'll go back up there and sit with George, and we'll do Q&A after these prepared remarks. At the front end, there's usual FD.

TD
Okay, these numbers are all known to you. This is 2006. We are up 12% in revenues. That compares to
21% in revenues in '04, 14% in revenues in '05, 12% in '06. I think, notably, we had strong organic growth
rate in this entire time period. It was 8% in '04, 7% in '05, and 9% last year. Organic growth rate is actually
stepped up for us, and I've been teasing investors and asking this question, which is UTC, since we do
sell into more mature parts of the economy, and I kind of grew up with the company with the expectation
that growth rate's 3%, 4%. I think you'll see organic growth rates 7%, 8%, 9%, it's pretty impressive. And to
me, the real question in front of investors is, "Can this machine keep on running at these kinds of organic
growth rates?" has a fair amount to do with a year evaluation on a present value basis. And my own
feeling, and I hope you'll see this in these charts to come, is that we're teed up to see organic revenue
growth rates remaining on the higher side as compared to history for a whole bunch of pretty clear
reasons.

Net income, EPS was up 19% last year. It was up 19% in 2004, 18% in 2005, and 19% again this year, and we've got guidance in front of those three of 11% or 12% this year. Free cash flow exceeded net income last year after contributions for pensions, which is our traditional standard. Cash flow, free cash flow, that is cash flow from operations minus CapEx equal to or exceeding net income every single year like clockwork.
This is the guidance we put in front of investors back in December, looking ahead to 2007. The bottom
was $4.05 to $4.20 was the range we gave investors. Free cash flow, again, exceeding net income. That's
the build up on a divisional basis. It put it $900 million higher segment operating income. We had $125
million or so below the line items. That's eliminations and others, interest, and things like that. And then,
our usual of $150 million or so contingency, and that's quoted as the number required to get to the $4.05
to $4.20 range.

Now, I want to talk about the EU  fine, which is a first-quarter event. We covered that in some depth at the analyst meeting 10 days ago. And also, we work to help you, I think, to look at your consensus again.
What happened, to go back on these numbers, is that in December, we had this $150-million contingency, we had a $4.14 share consensus for 2007 at that time, and we had EUR1.30. And that's the numbers that were on that page in December. Since December, our consensus has floated up, which it not untypically does for us. And as of a week or so ago, at the analysts meeting, consensus was at the highest end of our guidance at $4.20 a share. We had this European  Commission fine of $300 million, which has been well telegraphed and advised to investors now for the last two and a half years. This is regrettable. It's a complete breach of compliance requirements in UTC. It boils down to nine executives and European subsidiary companies of  Otis Elevator Company, engaging in  cartel activities.

The Commission decided to make a real big splash out of this one. They wanted a headline and a record fine ever for cartel behavior, and I guess we feel that the  fine is just disproportionate to the events, realizing that this is,  Otis is a subsidiary of UTC.  Otis Europe is a subsidiary entity of  Otis Elevator Company, and we're down in Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and a small part of the business in

Page 2 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Germany with nine renegade executives all discharged. We had aggressive cooperation with the Commission. We actually had the highest leniency and unity per census calculation by the  Commission, reflecting our aggressive cooperation because this behavior is repugnant to us, as it was to the Commission.

The bottom line is a $300-million  fine, which we said would net with $0.07 charge in the quarter, and that's because the gross fine, which is essentially not tax deductible, it's about $0.30 a share. And we bought
that down with reserves, previously established for this matter, and from one-time benefits in the quarter. And that gave rise to a $0.07 net charge. My advice to investors, two weeks ago, was that they reflect that
$0.07 net charge in consensus for both the quarter and for the year. And we didn't expect investors to do all that. We were kind of hoping you would. It's advisable and wise and sensible. The consensus for this year is not all that high anyway, and this is a $0.07 charge. By the way, there was some sediment. You should see the report. It's on a pro forma basis. That's just to take the $0.30, set it on the side, and do pro forma. And that is objectionable to me. We don't like pro forma at all. That went out in the year 2000, and so we elected and said to take it at the $0.07 net hit, net of reserve, net of a one-time benefit, and to invite you to adjust your consensus for it.

What actually happened was we got $0.06 out of the quarter versus the $0.07, and we got $0.03 out of the year versus the $0.07. So your consensus is a little higher than I'm comfortable with, but that's the way the world works, and we'll see how the year unfolds. So that's the status on consensus. And, again, our encouragement is hold it down because after all, it's only March and there's a long [technical difficulty] is not all that robust this year.
Okay, some quick comparison on UTC. We do very well against peers. This is the revenue compared for
'00 to '06. We're number one in the pack, 14%. And, again, as I mentioned, that's got 6% organic revenue
growth rate and for the six-year period. I said earlier it was eight [inaudible] now nine for the last three
years. Six is the average for the six-year period. And then, we got 4 percentage points of acquisitions and
really no change in FX over that time period. So it's six organic, four acquisitions. I guess this is a 10% of
we'll well over the peer average of 5.5%. And also, we're number one in organic revenue growth rate in
this peer population also.

This is earnings per share growth rate, same time period. Again, we're number one in the peer population. By the way, you recognize all these peers with their ticker symbols down at the bottom. 14% for us. The average for the peer population is 7.2%.
We ask ourselves this question from time to time and you do too. I'm mindful that sessions like this are
kind of like a beauty contest, and here, I'm always sort of talking up the multiple, and I do CEO talk like the
rest of my peers do. This entire conference is about CEO talk. That is, things are great, and you should
like our company, and the multiple should be higher. This is a little bit kind of a perspective setting. We ask
ourselves the question, "Is UTC a cyclical?". We trade at about a one multiple point premium to the
cyclical average -- this is the Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index here. And you ask yourself the question --
we're blue and everybody else in the cyclical index is red. And you ask yourself the question, "Are we a
cyclical?", and I think the answer is no, we're not a cyclical. We do get that one point premium but you
might say, "Is that enough, given that evidently low cyclicality." Then we look at other populations. We are
clearly not a consumer staple. That's not us at all. If you like consumer staples a lot, you give a four
multiple point premium to us. You do. You actually pay four points more multiple points for consumer
staples, the index in total, than you pay for us. And I wonder who you'd rather have.

Okay. So the questions are -- how do we do all this? And we do it with four things which I'm going to talk about in the next ten minutes. We do it with balance of the company, we do it with cost and productivity,
we do it with new products, really good new products, and we do it with a strong balance sheet. Those are the four characteristics of UTC that are worth taking away from this meeting. This speaks to the issue of balance. We're diversified by sector. Obviously, construction was  Otis and Carrier in constructions in both residential and commercial. Aerospace with Pratt, Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky, and also add Fire & Security into the commercial sector along with  Otis and Carrier.

So balance is one thing that lets all this happen. And my experience over many, many years in UTC is it's normally, some part of the business is on fire. What's on fire? What's on fire last year was North American residential market, and we had a big new product launch at [inaudible] Carrier [Cullogher], built a so-called [Sears 13] products. And we had a production ramp problem at Sikorsky where we were trying to triple the production volume over a three-and-a-half year period, both of which are big deals. And those were parts of the businesses that didn't work too well last year, and yet we did this 19% EPS growth rate last year in the face of that because of the balance of the company by products and also by geography.

We are 59% outside the United States, 41% inside the United States, and balanced across the entire world. And I've seen this go through on this balance issue a bunch of bad times. I'll take one. Our revenues in Asia-Pacific blew up in 1998 in the wake of the currency meltdowns, you recall, started in

Page 3 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Thailand. It went to Indonesia, Malaysia, Korea, and the whole economies collapsed and our Asia-Pacific revenues went down by 20% in that time period. It was a big drama. And it took the stock down a few points, then it went back up, and so forth, and people figured out that balance works. And Asia was on fire for us in the late '90s and then it came rumbling back in the last two or three years, and that was a good offset in part to the aerospace meltdown that happened in the wake of 9/11.

Commercial aviation was on fire after 9/11, and we are 25% to 30% profit exposed to commercial aviation. And what happened for us? Again, balance works. The military aviation business went way up. That was partly the Iraq war, but also it was the joint strike fighter program development funding program maturity. And the commercial companies were good, and Asia came back. So balance works. And to have something like the impact of 9/11 and realize that EPS chart I gave you before that compares us versus peers, number one in the population. That happened over the period that included 9/11 with this commercial aviation meltdown.

I come back again and say one of the strongest attributes of UTC is balance works. It's what lets me kind of go to investors and say, "We run the company on the basis of no bad news, no surprises." Even look to this example of this matter with the European  Commission fine, $0.07 net charge, and we're sticking
right on guidance. And I think it's notable that we guided after the  Commission. We said $0.07 off consensus gets you to the midpoint of the range we gave you in December. In other words, no bad news, no surprises. Balance works.

Another one is cost and productivity. It puts a lot of leverage under the P&L. I keep advising now in my older years, I advise our younger division people. I give them one piece of advice. It's four words long, "Get ahead of the wave." And what I mean by that is get your cost down in advance of investors' expectations and also in advance of management's expectations. This is me, speaking to young division people, and saying, "You get your costs down faster than I think you will and faster than investors think you will, you create a little room." And that is the cushion that lets you take care of bad news surprises, none of which we like to ever have for investors or for UTC management, and it lets you also have a little bit more runway for some restructuring charges, which help you build the business in the future. That is the UTC format, and it works very well.

We doubled the op income margins from the early 1990s till now. It's been a little flatter in the last three or four years. And a couple of things to pay attention to, one of those blue hats. That is the margin impact of low margin acquisitions. We've got $6 billion or $7 billion worth of acquisitions in the last three or four years and they include Chubb, Kidde, Linde, and Rocketdyne. All of them are mid-single digits, they aggregate to $6 billion or $7 billion of total revenue, and that buys down UTC's op income margin. But I believe they all create runway for the future, and you see us right dead on track in the Fire & Security
business with what we told you three years ago what would be the double-digit op income margin by 2008.
And we are actually running well ahead of expectations with the big Linde acquisition in Europe for Carrier
Corporation. So a piece of the flattening is that margin impact of low-market acquisitions. The other is the
130 basis points of net commodities cost impact for UTC in totality, almost all of which went against
Carrier, or two thirds of it went against Carrier. It's been $0.5 billion for us, in total. This is commodity cost
increase not recovered in price. That's 130 basis points of margin for UTC.

The way we do this is a couple disciplines on cost that are worth, I think, focusing on. One is restructuring. And this is some good data. I even would refer, I hope not you but your younger analysts just getting started, have them go plow through 10-Ks because the SEC, in 1998, mandated much expanded and much more precise reporting in restructuring expenditures by corporate America. And this is the stuff here. It's all out of our 10-K. This is the restructured spending as classified in the 10-K and against the SEC's tight definitions. It has put into $3.5 billion for us over this now nine-year period since 1998 and it's had material benefits for us. This is cumulative run rate savings, again, all out of the 10-K for us. It runs to $2.6 billion or $2.7 billion -- excuse me, $2.3 billion or $2.4 billion of annual savings. That's about a 70% pretax rate of return and that's not untypical. For us, we expect when it's overhead reductions, the payouts are
100%, continuing indefinitely. And when it's stock re-closures, the payouts are 30%. These are common DCF after-tax compound rates of return, and that's been a fabulous expenditure of shareholder money. I believe this $3.5 billion has done all this, and this is the rocket fuel that has been in our P&L for the margin increase and for the shareholder value increase that we have all seen.

And by the way, the operating metrics are there at the top, $54,000 net employee reductions and $21 million net manufacturing space. And just for reference, a million-square-foot plant is a big plant and this is
21 big plants for us, worldwide, a lot of it concentrated in Carrier in the last three or four years. They've taken the bulk of UTC's restructure expenditure since about 2002, and we've put $.75 billion into Carrier and restructure. We think there are opportunities and gains and pluses coming for Carrier, especially, in the next several years. So restructure and this tight discipline.


Page 4 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
By the way, we agreed with the Street, and I've said this, we have uncovered restructure charges in 1992 and 1993. And I was, at that point, [inaudible]'s President, and I hated it, and the op income margin was
5%, and investors were mad at me, and everything else was a mess. And so, I told investors we would never again see a restructure charge for the account of the shareholder. And our deal has been we have one-time gains. They happen all the time. We get -- well, for example, we've got lots of tax settlements. The last three years, we've had tax settlements in the second quarter of every year. And what's happened is the IRS has gotten current. Four years ago, the IRS had open tax years with us back to 1986, which is not untypical for corporate America.

The IRS were way behind, and as we have settled our tax years, in every case, we've had pretty big bring backs to income in the range of $.25 billion each time, and those show up as restructure spending. We had a contract gain of $.25 billion, several years ago, on the sale of MTU by Daimler-Chrysler to KKR. It's things like that that give us these one-time opportunities. Of course, the big one was the sale of UT Automotive in 1999. It all went out the door in restructure, and again, it's the fuel that has powered our P&L. Great discipline.

Second one is what we call the UTC operating system, Achieving Competitive Excellence, ACE. It gives rise to numbers like this. This is  Otis example. It's physical volume productivity. By the way, I don't agree at all with our federal government. They say productivity runs at a couple of points. They thought -- Greenspan thought until 1998, productivity was less than 1% in corporate America. They're all dead wrong. The numbers for us have been routinely 5%, 6%, 7% per annum gains, and physical volume productivity growth.

This is Otis here, three times more  elevators  installed. I see three and a half times, twice as many maintained, the workforce 21% larger. I didn't put the chart in here for Carrier, but Carrier is three and a half times more air conditioners, 11 million now versus 3 million in 1992 where the workforce is 9% larger. It's amazing. Triple the volume and no material increase in workforce is real productivity which is where the margin comes from. We do it with a series of disciplines that all fall under this ACE umbrella, the UTC operating system, which is formal discipline, regular, repetitive, mature. It's been in place now for a dozen years, and it comes out of Japanese methodology. It's the standard things you'd expect.

There's before-after photo there. This is high turbine airfoils, which is one of the highest technology products we make. This stuff sells for $250,000 a pound. That's expensive hamburger. This is really, really tough stuff to make, and we do it now and it's solely the employees. 40% less employees that makes 40% more parts, unit part output. And again, that's the same kind of enormous productivity increase. We do it with the technique shown at the bottom. Basically, cellular manufacturing. For those of you not manufacturing experts, the simple definition comes down to two words. Cellular manufacturing makes
work that [technical difficulty] sequential. It makes it simultaneous. That's the trick.

It used to have 15 separate steps in the plan, inventory between each individual step, which is the lay, waste, rework, all kinds of problems. And cellular manufacturing makes it simultaneous. We do flow optimization. I'll show you a flowchart in a second. We do workstation process control, which means that you keep each individual process inside its control limits, and that means you never build bad product in the first place. And so, we blow up the end-of-line inspection. We want that. We like the idea that when a product is done, it is not inspected. It's over. It is shipped, and we expect it to be perfect.

And, lastly, the so-called visual factory and 5S. 5S is Japanese derived -- sort, straighten, standardize, sustain, and shine. And you can see that, clear to that visual factor, in the right-hand side there, high turbine airfoils, 2006. This is flow optimization. I'm almost embarrassed to show it to you. We make these, of course, these Black Hawks. This is tail rotor blades. That spaghetti on the left is what it used to be,
122,677 feet, and now it's 560 feet. Again, cellular manufacturing, flow optimization, collapse of time and distance, and you get the metric benefit shown there in the lower part of the chart.

We like [inaudible]. This is Production Preparation Process. 3P, we call it. Again, it's kind of Japanese derived. We do simple little things like we build a cardboard mockup. That's what it is there. That is the PW615 engine [inaudible] Whitney, Canada, which is an enormous marketplace success. We'll be selling
1,000 engines a year, I think, for a long time into the future. We start out with a cardboard model and we do workforce involvement, hourly paid people, and we figured out how to do this thing [inaudible]. The metric on that PW600 is amazing. We build that product now, final assembly, with a lapse time of eight hours down from eight days. And that's the result of this 3P Production Preparation Process.

I'm going to skip the 17 non-negotiables, which are very important to us, and just focus on five that are there. One is one piece flow, no batch manufacturing. Second, no out-of-sequence work. Maybe the most important one is moving lines. Moving lines provides linearity and uniformity in manufacturing. Most manufacturing processes are like this, which means they're intrinsically unpredictable, which is why you have buckets of inventory. If you can make it linear in uniform, you get rid of everything and optimize everything. The way we do that is with a moving line. This [inaudible] Canada moving lines for the PW600

Page 5 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
engine is 30 feet long, it takes eight hours, and that line moves at about an inch a minute. You can hardly see it but it's moving an inch a minute for eight hours and you build a product over that cycle with moving lines. Of course, we have things like no trash containers, and that inspection processes upstream.

I don't show this chart very often but I think it's very revealing and I'm going to even get political for a second and say this is actually just a broader statement about capital markets and a broader statement about corporate America, in total. We have stopped being a capital intensive company. These numbers are amazing. The bars are the CapEx spending. The [blue] hats are the portion that went to restructure. And the line is the percentage of depreciation every year. It averages 109% for 15 years. You'll realize also depreciation is in historic dollars and CapEx is in current dollars. If you correct the currency, our capital stock is going down. We are depleting capital stock at UTC at a time when the company is two to three times larger than it was a dozen years ago. And that is done directly as a consequence of this lean manufacturing. And I say, and maybe this is an exaggeration for effect, but it's broadly true.

Every time we do lean in factory, we double capacity and have cost. We built our last brick and mortar in UTC, decades ago. We don't do it anymore. We don't need it anymore because every time we do lean, we double capacity and have cost. And that's why we can have capital spot completing with a company that is three times the size. So that's process and productivity and cost. And I stress again, to me, this is the strongest single element the shareholder value creation for us in the last 15 years. By the way, the shareholder value for UTC has gone from $6 billion to $66 billion over this time period of these charts and more than half of that is ACE, productivity, cost.

Last thing I want to talk about for a second is R&D. We're a big spender. We spend $3 billion-plus a year. Half of it's customer funded, most is U.S. Government. And that's obviously for products for the Department of Defense and about half of it is company funded. We're a far better company in our R&D than we were seven, eight, nine years ago. I felt, actually, and I stood in front of audiences and said we're late to market with our product launches, we have too much post-certification engineering, stuff doesn't work, we have service problems, and everything else, and we've gotten a lot better at that with a series of disciplines that are quite comparable to the ACE disciplines I mentioned earlier.

Here are some examples, the PW600 engines were on all three of the very light jets. Eclipse started shipping product December 31, 2006. [inaudible] Mustang ships this year, and [inaudible] 100 ships in about 18 months. They're all in the PW600 engine family. And I just talked to [Vern Rayburn] the day before yesterday at Eclipse and he's enchanted. We saved the Eclipse. There's no doubt about it. They had another engine, the engine wouldn't work. There was big drama and they took a two-year delay and he loves this engine. We have had zero engine failures to date. Zero.

This is a geared turbofan. We can talk about that in Q&A if you want to. We think this is the next generation in flight. And broadly, what happens is all two-spooled turbofan engines are compromised because the fan wants to go slow because you've got to keep the tip speeds down as the diameter gets bigger, and you can't slow down the low turbine without adding a whole lot of weight to it. And it's intrinsic compromise, and the way out of that box is to put a gear on the low shaft and let the fan speed at its natural -- fan speed turn at its natural speed and let the high turbine run three times faster, and we get -- the biggest thing we get there at the bottom is the noise benefit.

We think we can expand airport footprints and hours from operation. For example, right now, all existing turbofans cannot work in Heathrow. They shut the curfew from whatever it is, eleven at night to six in the morning, and that's it. Shutdown. No turbofans out of Heathrow. This noise level will enable 24 hour a day operation out of Heathrow. And I guess the biggest driver is the airlines are going to call on the airplane companies not only do they get the fuel burn benefit, but more importantly, you get 24-hour operation.

Here's this giant win at Hamilton Sundstrand. We won essentially every aircraft subsystem in the 787 airplane and we did it on integration of eight separate systems. By the way, those eight separate systems we bid. Typically, Honeywell would half, we had half. We got eight, they got zero. It was an amazing outcome. We saved 900 pounds of weight by system integration, and we account for one quarter of Boeing's 20% fuel burn advantage of the 787 over prior-generation aircraft. We built a huge integration laboratory out in Rockford, Illinois, and that was a big piece of this win also.

Now this is Gen2  Elevator for Otis. I'll skip some of the technology benefits. Suffice it to say we build elevators  with no more motor rooms. Used to be on top of the  elevator shaft. There was a separate dedicated room for machinery. We've made it all small enough so that the machinery fits inside the hoist and you save the motor room space. It's lubricant-free. And in the regenerative mode where you recapture work when the load comes down that you put in when the load went up, we can actually offer elevators that use 75% less energy than comparable  elevators  did a decade ago. It's an amazing product. Otis is gaining share of market about a point a year on the back of this incredibly successful product launch.



Page 6 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
This is one that's coming. It won't be material in our P&L for a long time. This is fuel cells. We're the only fuel cell builder in the world of commercial fuel cells and we're doing a new-generation launch, which will be in the marketplace in about two years time. It's left versus right. We're going to double the electric output with a 13% bigger footprint and we're going to cut the capital cost in half per kilowatt and that's been the impediment of marketplace success. These things in the right sell for about $1 million apiece, and we expect to sell 500 a year starting in 2010. It's still too small. That'd be 1% of UTC's total revenue, but I think this is the way of our future, and we feel that we are the decisive market and tactical leader in fuel cells worldwide.

Back on some financial numbers. This is cash flow, always equals or exceeds net income even after pensions and contributions. Dividends, we've doubled in the last three years if we raise the double-digit percentage every 15 months. And you can work out the math from the last time, and it will happen right on schedule, double-digit percentage. And since our payout ratio is a little toward the low end of the peer population, I think we're going to see really healthy increases for the next couple of years on dividend rates.

Cash returned to shareholders is both dividends on the bottom, share repurchase at the top. We turned out 78% went back to shareholders, last year. You see a steady ramp since 2003, and we are mindful, as you are, of the shareholder value agenda on cash returns. 78% is up toward the top of the peer population. I think you'll see this number for us stay at a highish level for the next several years at least. We've got a pretty good debt-to-cap ratio. We trade as if we were AAA credit even though we are an
A-rated credit. We got some room for a little bit more debt. Of course, what we want to keep is a firepower drive for acquisitions and that's the kind of transition. Last year's acquisition spend was a little low, which
is why we ran this share repurchase up to $2 billion, last year.

Guidance this year is $1.5 billion. First quarter is $0.5 billion, and I think it might float up, certainly float up as compared to float down. If we spend about $2 billion a year on acquisitions. The big ones there are Sundstrand in 1999. That was the best deal of my life. We sold UT Automotive. It was a Hail-Mary pass. I loved it. Leer took it, and that's their problem. We had Auto out and Sundstrand in. It's the best year we ever did. And then in 2004/2005, we created the Fire & Security segment with Chubb, first. And Kidde is the green half that is there.
Debt to cap, I mentioned that already. And this is why we do all this. This is the cum, CSR, announced for
14 years, UTX is red. The S&P is blue, and the peers are down there. And each of them about a third of
our level. I think we've got a lot of runway and momentum to keep all these things going for a long time in
this picture.

So, let me stop right there and maybe I'll walk up here and we can take some Q&A and discussion and complaints and observations, and you can tell me what you think is important. Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Thanks, George. Let me start with the first couple of questions, and I think one of the critical things for investors is their concern when somebody of your stature and track record leaves, bad things start to happen. Maybe you can go through your timeframe as CEO and when you leave the Chairman position. Also, how are you measuring Louie's performance so far and how do you think it's stacked up to your expectations?

GEORGE DAVID, CEO, UNITED TECHNOLOGIES: Okay, well, a couple things. I think George is dead on. I have been Chief Executive Officer since 1994, so next year will be 14 years, and I'm mindful after long-service CEO. If you look at some other people, maybe the transition didn't work so well. Some other companies I will not name. And my absolute goal -- I think I've had a pretty good record. I've had a great
time as Chief Executive Officer and I would like it to end on a high note, which is to see this to be the most successful transition and succession ever. And I'm working very hard at that. I think there are a couple of elements that are important.

The first thing is I think transition takes time and it's not a good idea to have one guy out the door and one guy in the door, overnight. It takes a long time. The skill sets of the parent company are quite different
from the skill sets in the division. I had a great experience myself, personally, that's worth noting. I was made UTC's President in '92, the Chief Executive in '94, and not the Chairman until '97. I had a five-year transition period with my predecessor. The best thing that ever happened to me. Let me work at his job, learn a bunch of things. The first couple of years, I was dead on for operations and then I kind of acquired the skill sets as the Chairman in the parent company and so on and so forth. And I'd like to have the same thing happen with a successor for me.

We appointed Louie Chenevert as the company's President, last April, so in a couple months, it will be a one-year anniversary. And I guess it's kind of a soft indication that I will step out of the CEO position in April, a year from now, after 14 years. And I think that there's also a soft expectation that I will remain the Chairman of the Board for maybe a couple of years after that. My own experience, I would remain three.

Page 7 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
That'd be a five-year transition period in total, and we'll see how that develops. I need to be -- I'm out of the hair of the successor management team. At the same time, be seen to be a contributor and to be helpful and so forth, and to make this a really bang-up succession. I predict that's what's going to happen. Have a bang-up succession. I will be the Chairman for two to three years after April, a year from now. And my goal is to have investors feel as comfortable with my successor as they do with me.

I'm also quick to point out anybody that -- you need to compare my successor not against me today in my later years but compare me against what I was like in 1992, 1993, and 1994. And I get embarrassed. It's actually not so favorable to me because 15 years ago, the stock price was actually at $6. On a
split-adjusted basis was $6 a share and now it's $65 a share, and the op income margin was 5%, and investors were some kind of mad at us. And I had some awful meeting with investors. I could tell you anecdotes. We can talk -- I can give you stories for hours about how investors treated me in 1993 and
1994, and it was not a pleasant experience. I actually thought about retiring early and going some other place. And so, to compare, let's be very clear, you shouldn't compare successor against me today
because I've been at this now for 14 years and I think I've had most of, almost every possible question that an investor could ask, both friendly and not friendly. So that's one.

I think also, I feel like looking at other succession situations and I guess you're going to refer who I'm talking about but it's real tough to walk into a 40-plus multiple for a company that has business with market growth rates not dissimilar to our own and where the operating income margin was at 20%. You probably can figure out what company that is, and I feel like there was no place to go. I kind of -- and actually, at the time, I was diagnosed in that to think, "What would I do if I got a company that kind of felt like UTC, was already perfectly optimized with a 20% operating income margin, had a 44 multiple, and no place to go, what would you do?". And I guess the answer was there was no place to go, so it was difficult. And I think that it's clearly different in the case of UTC. Clearly, clearly different.

For one thing, our multiple is not 44. Our multiple is 17. Our multiple is right smack in the middle of the pack, and so I don't think the multiples got any room downward to move at all. They might move up. That would be nice. Or it might stay where it is, all of which is  fine as far as I'm concerned. So I think the multiple is not an issue. I think also we have lots of op income, margin, and runway where it's 14% op income margin on 2007 numbers. That number, I've said, steadily, can be 300 basis points higher than that, and it think we have the systems, disciplines, methodology, all under ACE to make that happen. We have a great product portfolio now with some pretty good successful R&D. And I think that the company is in great shape that it just does more of the same. Just does the same old stuff. The same old, same old.
Every year, you're going to see the same kinds of numbers happen in the future that have happened in the past.

And last, of course, I think we have -- we do have a strong balance sheet. And sometimes, there's a temptation when long-serving CEOs are on their way out the door, the balance sheet gets a little leaned out and I think if you look at our cash content and net income, and you can quickly conclude -- and also
our capacity, look at this, to absorb a $0.30 share, non-tax deductible charge, to eat that in the first quarter and to confirm guidance right smack in the middle of a range we set eight weeks ago is a pretty commentary on the strength of the balance sheet. So I feel like a successor. And by the way, Louis is a likely successor but that will not be confirmed until the Board makes its decision, and they have to decide that it's okay for me to go in April '08, and I think they'll decide that. I think they'll decide they got a good successor, but the Board will do what the Board does when the Board does what the Board does.

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Okay, thanks. Maybe one more and then we'll probably have to adjourn for the breakout session. You mentioned earlier you stepped up in organic growth for the last several years. What do you think is sustainable [inaudible] relative to world GDP?
GEORGE DAVID: I think we ought to be over world GDP consistently into the future and maybe 200 to
300 basis points. We are gaining share of market in some of our businesses. Not in all. We're doing great
things on share of market in carrier [inaudible]. We're doing good things on share of market in Carrier
commercial and refrigeration. I think the Carrier commercial applied business, that's the commercial air
conditioning business, has got some good market share runway in front of it.

Otis is just knocking the lights out on share of market. So is Fire & Security. I think Fire & Security will especially, in the next several years when we get past really cleaning up operations and creating a powerful platform. I think Sikorsky share of market's going up. Automatic, in the next five years, that's just based on program. That is all these Black Hawk helicopter renewals for both the Army and for the Navy. I feel pretty good, and I think you ought to expect organic growth rate to sustain. As long as we have good economies, I think they ought to be in the 6% or so annual range and maybe a click better than that as long as we have good economies worldwide.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Okay, thank you very much. That was an interesting presentation.


Page 8 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
GEORGE DAVID: Okay, thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or
other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based
upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from
those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are
more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may
indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any
of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the
results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF
AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

NS     c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | girs : Internal Revenue Service | ntra : Transcript | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive
News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
RE     usa : United States | namz : North America
PUB  Voxant, Inc.
AN     Document FNDW000020070314e337002xp


































Page 9 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE            Other Stories
HD            No convictions for competition law. WC           574 words
PD            14 March 2007
SN            Irish Times
SC            IRTI
LA            English
CY            (c) 2007, The Irish Times.

LP
Conferences While more than a fifth of all complaints to the Competition Authority over the past five years have related to the construction sector, there have been no convictions against companies in the industry, a construction law conference has heard.

"Ireland has more  cartel convictions than any other country in Europe, although as yet none of those convictions have been in the construction sector," said the head of EU and competition law at A&L Goodbody, Dr Vincent Power. He was addressing the company's annual conference on construction law, which took place last Thursday.

TD
"However the EU, the Office of Fair Trading in the UK and the Dutch competition authority have all imposed fines on the construction sector. The Irish authority tends to follow the practice of other authorities, meaning that Irish companies in the construction sector need to be extra careful in ensuring they comply with competition law," Dr Power said.

Details showing that 22 per cent of all complaints to the Competition Authority are connected to the construction industry here come from the authority's publications over five years. This is the highest level of complaints received by any sector, Dr Power said. "Ireland was the first European country to implement criminal cartel enforcement successfully and there are now 18 convictions of companies and individuals."

Such a high level of conviction was partly due to Ireland introducing the legislation ahead of others and also the fact that the Irish legislation was more pro-prosecution than others.

"Any arrangement which has the object or effect of preventing, restricting or distorting competition in the market is anti-competitive. Everyone suffers because of breaches of competition law and the clear message now, after two suspended jail sentences being imposed in this country among 18
convictions in the last two years, is 'stop'," Dr Power said.

"Corporate Ireland is learning fast about the new tough competition rules and abiding by them for the benefit of corporations and companies alike."

Fines and penalties for breaching competition law could be substantial, he said. This includes imprisonment of up to five years, injunctions, declarations, damages and  fines of up to 10 per cent of worldwide turnover.

In a February 2007 decision taken against the  Otis, Kone, Schindler and ThyssenKrupp groups for operating cartels for the installation and maintenance of lifts and escalators, the European Commission imposed fines amounting to €992 million.

The European  Commission said that managements in the  cartel used pre-paid mobiles and met in the countryside and in bars so as to avoid detection.

"All firms need to be extra vigilant in their dealings with competitors and in communicating or exchanging information on plans, prices and aspects of their business," Dr Power said.

In a recent decision, a number of construction companies in The Netherlands were  fined over €100 million for collusion. Evidence came to light when a disgruntled employee broke the story to the Dutch media and a television programme was broadcast.

Page 10 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Delegates at the A&L Goodbody conference were told that there were many construction companies which complied with competition law but now was the time that others should comply in full.

The conference also addressed the developments in construction law in the past year, and conditions of engagement for construction consultants, in addition to a panel debate from a contractor and employer perspective on the public works suite of building and engineering contracts.
CO           goodal : A&L Goodbody
IN             i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

NS            eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE            ire : Ireland | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD           Other Stories
PUB         Itronics Limited
AN            Document IRTI000020070314e33e00044


















































Page 11 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Finland:  Kone to appeal EU fines
CR       Esmerk
WC      147 words
PD       19 March 2007
SN       Esmerk Finnish News
SC       ESMKFI
LA        English
CY       Copyright 2007. Esmerk Limited

LP
Kauppalehti, 19 Mar 2007, p.6:-

The Finnish lift manufacturer  Kone considers the EUR 142mn penalty imposed on it for the lift and escalator cartel too severe. Finnish newspaper Kauppalehti reports that the company admits to cartels in Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium and Holland, but considers the  fine too high. It finds the EUR 62mn fine for the German  cartel too high, because Kone was the one who gave the EU  Commission the decisive information for busting the  cartel. Kone was not fined in Luxembourg and Belgium due to its good cooperation.

TD
In the Netherlands, the Commission issued Kone a fine of nearly EUR 80mn.  Kone claims that the Commission has overestimated the cartel's operations and subsequent business profits, and therefore considers the Dutch  fine disproportionate.

Kone representatives were not available for comment.
RF       es7SC0Q1
NS       eec : European Union | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c34 : Competition Issues | nabst : Abstract
| ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE       belg : Belgium | fin : Finland | gfr : Germany | lux : Luxembourg | neth : Netherlands | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | weurz : Western Europe
IPD      Competition Policy, Anti-Trust Policy
PUB     Esmerk Oy
AN       Document ESMKFI0020070319e33j0000b




















Page 12 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE     GOVERNMENT & POLITICS
HD     Victims  encouraged to take legal stand on cartels
BY     Judit Zegnál
WC    1,491 words
PD     19 March 2007
SN     Budapest Business Journal
SC     WBBJ
LA      English
CY     (c) 2007 Budapest Business Journal

LP
The European  Commission intends to promote more private lawsuits against price-fixers while avoiding the creation of a legal culture similar to the U.S., which is seen as encouraging frivolous lawsuits, said EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes at the  Cartel Enforcement and Antitrust Damages Actions in Europe conference in March.

Triple damages and certain kinds of class-action suits that allow plaintiffs to opt out “are simply not compatible with our European traditions,” Kroes said in the speech.

TD
The European  Commission is working on plans to encourage victims of illegal monopolies and cartels to sue for damages. Such lawsuits, in addition to regulatory  fines, can help cartel victims recover losses and deter illegal activity, the  commission determined.

“Businesses and individuals who suffer losses because of illegal activities such as cartels have a right to compensation,” Kroes told BBJ. “Currently, this right is all too often theoretical because of obstacles to exercising this right in practice. In a White Paper the  commission intends to publish by the end of this year, we will set out options for making that right a reality, and so making companies that break competition rules pay for the harm they do.”

In the absence of EC rules on the matter, it is for the legal systems of the member states to provide detailed rules for bringing damages actions. But as the antitrust rules in the 25 member states are very diverse and present a picture of “total underdevelopment,” the European  Commission has set out to establish guidelines to promote private actions, which member states would have to build into their respective legal systems, Kroes added.
Hefty fines
Kroes has made fighting cartels one of her main priorities for her five-year term that began in November
2004. The regulator has the power to  fine companies as much as 10% of global sales.

In 2006, the  commission levied a one-year record of €1.84 billion in cartel fines. On Feb. 21, the agency imposed €992.3 million in  fines – its largest penalty ever – against Otis Elevator Co., ThyssenKrupp AG and three competitors for fixing the price of  elevators  and escalators.

Kroes said private actions against cartels, which are permitted under EU law, have been slow to catch on in the 27-member EU. A  commission study found that legal costs outweigh the benefits. It also mentioned as a discouraging factor that some governments prohibit punitive damages.

Kroes said it’s “worth considering” whether to allow double damages against cartels “but only if it’s proven that single damages aren’t enough to get the victims to court.”

The EU already has some form of class-action suits. A German court last month allowed a €114 million damages claim against HeidelbergCement AG, Holcim Ltd. of Switzerland and rival cement makers filed
by the Brussels-based  Cartel Damage Claims SA, which pools  cartel victims’ claims. UK courts have also considered similar actions.

Settlements
Page 13 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Most of the cartels investigated by the commission result from companies’ leniency or immunity applications. Companies can avoid all fines or get a major reduction if they’re the first to provide the EU with meaningful information about price-fixing.
Since 2002 leniency rules took effect, the  commission has been flooded with dozens of requests for  fine
reductions and “the number of leniency applications continues to increase,” Kroes said.

To clear some of the pending cases, Kroes said the EU is considering giving companies accused of illegal price-fixing the option of settling charges out of court rather than waiting years for  fines to be resolved in court.

The commission and the company would first agree on the extent of the firm’s involvement, including how long it participated in the cartel. Fines would then be assessed with a reduction for cooperation and “voluntary assistance.” The commission is still working on the exact details on how to reduce the  fines, Kroes said.
The Hungarian system

In Hungary, the main source of competition legislation is Act LVII of 1996 on the prohibition of unfair market practices and restriction of competition. According to experts, the problem with the Hungarian system is that the Competition Act introduces a rigid separation of the activities of the country’s competition authority – the Competition Office (GVH) – and that of civil law courts.

“Under the Hungarian legal system, the procedures in respect of cartels and of abuse of dominant position are administrative issues and fall within the competence of the Competition Office,” explained Péter Szolnoky, an expert of the GVH. “Lawsuits for damages, however, are civil law disputes and so, fall within the competence of the courts. The separation between the two is very rigid, and  cartel victims are not allowed to use the results of GVH investigations in their cases. It is also questionable whether civil courts would endorse cases based on GVH investigations. This is discouraging for  cartel victims, because all the burden of proof is on their shoulders – and proving a case is very problematic and costly in  cartel issues.”
Access to evidence

Actions for damages in antitrust cases regularly require the investigation of a broad set of facts, Szolnoky explained.

“The particular difficulty with this kind of litigation is that often the relevant evidence is not easily available and is held by the party committing the anti-competitive behavior,” he argued. “Access by claimants to such evidence is the key to making damages claims effective. It must therefore be considered whether obligations to turn over documents or otherwise provide access to evidence should be introduced. This is particularly important for stand-alone actions.”

Szolnoky added that, in a similar vein, consideration could be given to placing an obligation on the defendant to disclose documents submitted to a competition authority.

“In cases in which the European  Commission or a national competition authority has undertaken an investigation, it is likely to possess relevant evidence which could be important for a claimant in follow-on cases,” Szolnoky said. “Use of those materials in subsequent civil actions could be helpful in proving the damages claim.”
Courts have say

According to the  commission’s country-specific survey into national  cartel legislations, in Hungary lawsuits for damages are civil law disputes and being so fall within the competence of the courts. As a result, the Hungarian courts judged claims for damages based on these unfair market practices on a couple of occasions, but there is no significant case law regarding claims for damages based on breach of the competition rules on cartels and on abuse of dominant position.

However, the Hungarian Supreme Court has set precedent, ruling in one case that the courts did not have jurisdiction with respect to assessing the existence of an abuse of dominant position, but ruled that courts could judge in matters of damage claims.

“We experienced that the courts stopped or suspended proceedings until the decision of the Competition Office, because they did not consider themselves having competence to decide on the question of the existence of the prohibited market practice itself, when cartels or abuse of dominant position were at issue,” the study said. “The practice of the courts can be criticized from the theoretical legal point of view, because the above-cited rules do not, in fact, restrain court assessing infringement of competition rules as


Page 14 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
one of the elements of the liability in damages, but only reserve the competence of ‘competition authority procedure’ for the Competition Office.”
Reflecting on the outcome of the  commission’s study, Szolnoky said that “If no ‘bridge’ is created
between GVH procedures and civil court cases, the practice of the courts may remain unchanged, with the
result that the courts will not show willingness to decide upon the legal consequences of damages without
having a competition authority decision first.”

Last year, the GVH conducted 180 procedures. Of these, the office found breaches of the Competition Act in 80 cases, and levied  fines worth a total of Ft 11.4 billion.

Companies the GVH  fined for cartel activities included System House Kft, IBM Kft and SAP Kft, which together were levied a Ft 1.5 billion fine.

Another major  cartel case involved Allianz Hungária Zrt, Generali Providencia Zrt, the National Association of Car Dealers, the Hungarian Peugeot Dealers Insurance Broker Kft, the Hungarian Opel Dealers Insurance Broker Kft and Porsche Insurance Broker Kft. In this case, the GVH levied total  fines of Ft 6.8 billion, of which Allianz alone had to pay Ft 5.3 billion.

Unlike the EU’s  cartel investigations, which are mainly based on reports by either  cartel members or victims, in Hungary the procedures are almost entirely based on GVH’s systematic investigations into various market segments, especially large public procurements tenders.
The Euro Bureau is a regular BBJ column on the broader issues facing Hungary as a member of the
European Union. The author can be contacted at Judit.Zegnal@bbj.hu.
CO     otel : Otis Elevator Company | thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG | utc : United Technologies Corporation
IN      i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3255 : Handling
Equipment | imet : Metals/Mining
NS     c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
PUB   Uj Vilag Lapkiado Kft.
AN     Document WBBJ000020070319e33j0000c

Search Summary
Text                                commission and fine* and (cartel or "price-fixing" or "market sharing") and (Elevator*
or Escalator*) and (kone or otis or schindler)
Date                                21/01/2007 to 21/03/2007
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                104
Timestamp                      2 April 2019 4:10 PM














Page 15 of 15 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
