




Tomra faces Brussels verdict - COMPLIANCE. ....................................................................................................... 2
EU fines Norwegian drink recycling firm €24 million for antitrust abuse................................................................... 4
EU fines Norwegian drink recycling firm euro24 million for antitrust abuse ............................................................. 6
TOMRA - DECISION IN EU COMMISSION 'S CASE AGAINST TOMRA ............................................................... 8
UPDATE 1-EU fines Norway's Tomra 24mln euros ................................................................................................. 9
EU says fines Tomra 24 mln euros in antitrust case .............................................................................................. 10
Tomra : Fined by the EU ........................................................................................................................................ 11
Tomra Gets EUR24M Fine From EU Commission................................................................................................. 12
EU: Tomra Cornered Vending Market In Five Countries........................................................................................ 13
EU fines Norwegian recycler for canning rivals ...................................................................................................... 15
EU Commission fines Tomra Systems ASA EUR24m ........................................................................................... 16
PACKAGING COLLECTION : RECORD FINE FOR TOMRA GROUP FOR ABUSE OF DOMINANT POSITION ...
17
Contents ................................................................................................................................................................ 18 (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Heavy fine on Norwegian group Tomra (collection of used drink containers) for abuse
of dominant position ............................................................................................................................................... 21
(AMM) EU regulators fine Tomra $29M for antitrust abuse.................................................................................... 22 (AMM) EU regulators fine Tomra $29M for antitrust abuse.................................................................................... 24
INTERNATIONAL NEWS ...................................................................................................................................... 26
PACKAGING COLLECTION : RECORD FINE FOR TOMRA GROUP FOR ABUSE OF DOMINANT POSITION ...
30
EARNINGS POLL- Tomra analysts see Q1 profit rally .......................................................................................... 31
Norwegian Tomra Pre-tax Profit Seen at 11.9 Mln Euro Q1 2006 ......................................................................... 33
UPDATE 1- Tomra Q1 profit up,to appeal EU anti-trust ruling ............................................................................... 34
Tomra profit up, to appeal EU's anti-trust ruling ..................................................................................................... 35
Norwegian Tomra Q1 2006 Net Profit Surges to 10.8 Mln Euro ............................................................................ 36
Q1 2006 Tomra Systems ASA Earnings Presentation - Final ................................................................................ 38
















Page 1 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE        COMPANIES INTERNATIONAL
HD         Tomra faces Brussels verdict  - COMPLIANCE. BY        By TOBIAS BUCK
WC       335 words
PD        27 March 2006
SN        Financial Times
SC        FTFT
ED        London Ed1
PG        Page 24
LA        English
CY        (c) 2006 The Financial Times Limited. All rights reserved

LP
The European Commission is this week expected to find  Tomra, the Norwegian recycling-machine maker, guilty of violating European competition rules by abusing its dominant market position.

The verdict, yet to be formally confirmed at a meeting on Wednesday, comes after an antitrust probe lasting five years.  Commission officials raided  Tomra's offices in September 2001, and the group was charged with breaking competition rules four years later.

TD
The group is the world's biggest producer of so-called "reverse vending machines", or containers that are set up in stores and supermarkets to accept used bottles and cans.  Tomra has more than 50,000
RVMs installed in 40 countries, and in 2004 posted full-year operating profit of NKr173m on revenues of
NKr2.51bn (Dollars 380m).

At the heart of the  Commission's charges - relayed to the company in a statement of objections in September 2004 - is the claim that  Tomra exploited its dominant market position in several  European markets between 1991 and 2001. The company said at the time: "The alleged abuse is partly due to having entered into exclusive purchase agreements with customers and partly due to use of loyalty rebates."

Both are business strategies that regularly fall foul of Article 82 of the EU treaty, which prohibits the abuse of a dominant position. It is the same provision used by the  Commission to crack down on Microsoft in its landmark decision of March 2004.

The company also said it had examined its routines in reaction to the  Commission charges and had implemented a "comprehensive competition compliance programme".

It is likely that  Tomra will be ordered to pay a fine, though the details of the financial penalty are usually only decided immediately before the Commission meeting. Under EU rules, the  Commission can fine companies up to 10 per cent of global annual turnover, though the regulator normally opts for a much lower percentage.
Both the  Commission and Tomra declined to comment.

RF        20060327L124.074
CO       tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN         i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines

NS        eec : European Union | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations | eucom : European Commission


Page 2 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
RE        eurz : Europe | norw : Norway | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western
Europe
PUB     The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN        Document FTFT000020060327e23r0003o


































































Page 3 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     EU fines Norwegian  drink recycling firm €24 million for antitrust abuse

BY      By AOIFE WHITE CR     AP Business Writer WC     381 words
PD      29 March 2006
ET      01:29 PM
SN      Associated Press Newswires
SC      APRS
LA      English
CY      (c) 2006. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) - The EU on Wednesday  fined Norwegian recycling firm  Tomra €24 million
(US$29 million) for abusing antitrust rules to keep rivals at bay.

Tomra Systems ASA is the major supplier of machines that collect used drink containers for a deposit in
Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.

TD
EU spokesman Jonathan Todd said the level of the  fine -- 7 percent of  Tomra's global revenue -- matched the seriousness of the company's deliberate actions to squeeze out competition. "This represents the highest ever percentage of worldwide turnover of a company  fined for violating the competition rules," he said.

EU regulators stepped in after a German competitor complained that  Tomra's agreements with large retailers prevented it from doing business.

The European Commission found that  Tomra broke antitrust rules with "exclusionary" business methods in the five countries from 1998 to 2002. It struck deals that made  Tomra the only supplier of the machines and imposed quantity targets or rebate schemes that effectively forced customers to buy only from them.

"This illegal conduct enabled  Tomra to extend or artificially maintain its dominant position," the commission said. "The abuse was done intentionally and with awareness of the harm they were likely to cause to competition on the market."

It said lack of competition can force customers to pay higher prices and strangle the development of new innovative products.

EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said companies that have the major share of the market cannot use rebates and discounts as part of a strategy to exclude actual and potential competitors.

"All of these practices, as implemented by  Tomra, aimed at restricting, and have restricted or seriously hindered, the ability of other machine suppliers to enter the market efficiently," the  Commission said.

Tomra said in a statement it had ended all agreements involving exclusivity or loyalty commitments several years ago. "Tomra today operates in accordance with current laws, rules and practices," it said.

The company rejected the  Commission's formal charges in November 2004, it said. It has two months to appeal the fine and said it would make a decision on that later.

Tomra has 50,000 "reverse vending machines" installed in 40 countries.
RF      7
CO     tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN       i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines

Page 4 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
NS      eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
IPD     Financial/Business
IPC     tagapf
PUB   Press Association, Inc.
AN     Document APRS000020060329e23t002xn






























































Page 5 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     EU fines Norwegian  drink recycling firm euro24 million for antitrust abuse

BY      By AOIFE WHITE CR     AP Business Writer WC     381 words
PD      29 March 2006
ET      01:22 PM
SN      Associated Press Newswires
SC      APRS
LA      English
CY      (c) 2006. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) - The EU on Wednesday  fined Norwegian recycling firm  Tomra euro24 million
(US$29 million) for abusing antitrust rules to keep rivals at bay.

Tomra Systems ASA is the major supplier of machines that collect used drink containers for a deposit in
Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.

TD
EU spokesman Jonathan Todd said the level of the  fine -- 7 percent of  Tomra's global revenue -- matched the seriousness of the company's deliberate actions to squeeze out competition. "This represents the highest ever percentage of worldwide turnover of a company  fined for violating the competition rules," he said.

EU regulators stepped in after a German competitor complained that  Tomra's agreements with large retailers prevented it from doing business.

The European Commission found that  Tomra broke antitrust rules with "exclusionary" business methods in the five countries from 1998 to 2002. It struck deals that made  Tomra the only supplier of the machines and imposed quantity targets or rebate schemes that effectively forced customers to buy only from them.

"This illegal conduct enabled  Tomra to extend or artificially maintain its dominant position," the Commission said. "The abuse was done intentionally and with awareness of the harm they were likely to cause to competition on the market."

It said lack of competition can force customers to pay higher prices and strangle the development of new innovative products.

EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said companies that have the major share of the market cannot use rebates and discounts as part of a strategy to exclude actual and potential competitors.

"All of these practices, as implemented by  Tomra, aimed at restricting, and have restricted or seriously hindered, the ability of other machine suppliers to enter the market efficiently," the  Commission said.

Tomra said in a statement it had ended all agreements involving exclusivity or loyalty commitments several years ago. "Tomra today operates in accordance with current laws, rules and practices," it said.

The company rejected the  Commission's formal charges in November 2004, it said. It has two months to appeal the fine and said it would make a decision on that later.

Tomra has 50,000 "reverse vending machines" installed in 40 countries.
RF      7
CO     tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN       i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines

Page 6 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
NS      eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
IPD     Financial/Business
IPC     tagpf1wcat
PUB   Press Association, Inc.
AN     Document APRS000020060329e23t002xo






























































Page 7 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD         TOMRA - DECISION IN EU COMMISSION'S CASE AGAINST TOMRA WC       270 words
PD        29 March 2006
SN        Hugin Press Release
SC        HUGNEN LA         English CY        (c) 2006

LP
The EU Commission has today concluded that  TOMRA in the period 1998 to 2002 foreclosed competition on the market for reverse vending machines in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden by implementing an exclusionary strategy. Consequently, the  Commission has decided to fine TOMRA EUR 24 million. In addition  TOMRA has been required to bring to and end all agreements involving exclusivity and/or loyalty commitments. This was already implemented several years ago.

In September 2004,  TOMRA received the EU  Commission's Statement of Objections relating to the EU Commission investigation in 2001. TOMRA filed its written response to the Statement of Objections in November 2004. In this response TOMRA rejected the  Commission's arguments.

TD
Prior to the reception of the  Commission's Statement of Objections,  TOMRA had also taken several actions to avoid potential future objections, i.e., through the implementation of a "Compliance Program". Therefore, regardless of the requirements that have been set forth by the  Commission in today's decision, TOMRA today operates in accordance with current laws, rules and practices.

The company's Board of Directors will evaluate and assess how to respond to the  fine. If necessary, TOMRA is entitled to appeal the decision of the Commission to the European Court of Justice (Court of First Instance) within 2 months. Whether TOMRA will accept or appeal the decision will be communicated at a later point in time.
Questions related to this matter can be directed to President & CEO Amund Skarholt, phone number
+47 97 55 94 25.
Asker, 29 March 2006

Tomra Systems ASA
CO        tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN          i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines
NS        eec : European Union | eucj : European Court of Justice | npress : Press Release | ncat : Content Types
| ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        lux : Luxembourg | norw : Norway | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries |
eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe
PUB      Hugin AS
AN        Document HUGNEN0020060329e23t000p3









Page 8 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD         UPDATE 1-EU fines Norway's  Tomra 24mln euros
WC        344 words
PD         29 March 2006
ET         11:44 AM
SN         Reuters News
SC         LBA
LA          English
CY         (c) 2006 Reuters Limited

LP
(Adds CEO comment, EU comment, analyst and share price)

OSLO, March 29 (Reuters) - The  European Union will fine Tomra , the Norwegian manufacturer of machines which collect bottles and cans from consumers for recycling, 24 million  euros ($28.81 million) for anti-competitive behaviour between 1998 and 2002, the company and the EU said on Wednesday.

TD
The news knocked 1 percent off  Tomra's share price pushing it to a 5-1/2 week low of 52 crowns. This values the company at around 9.3 billion Norwegian crowns ($1.4 billion).

"The EU  Commission has today concluded that  Tomra in the period 1998 to 2002 foreclosed competition on the market for reverse vending machines in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden by implementing an exclusionary strategy,"  Tomra said in a statement.

"Consequently, the  Commission has decided to fine Tomra 24 million euros." Tomra's machines collect used drinks containers in supermarkets and other locations, paying out in return a deposit levied on the containers.

Tomra's Chief Executive Amund Skarholt told Reuters the  fine was larger than expected.

"We will get the details sent over now, and we will go through these and consider an appeal. We have two months to go through this case now," he said.

The EU's competition commissioner Neelie Kroes said: "Rebates and discounts cannot be used by a dominant company as part of a strategy to exclude actual and potential competitors."
Reuters on Tuesday reported that the  Commission would decide that  Tomra had abused its position. But the long term impact on  Tomra will be limited, analysts said.
"This is worth one crown per share, but there is a possibility to appeal here, so one can see that this might drag on for a long time," said Paul Handeland, an analyst at ABG Sundal Collier.
"This is a 'one off' that does not really affect the underlying values in this case."
RF         MANUFACTURING-TOMRA (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|DA|FN|NW|SW|RNP|PCO

NS         c151 : Earnings | genv : Environmental News | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
RE         eurz : Europe | norw : Norway | weurz : Western Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia
IPC        RES
PUB      Reuters Ltd.
AN         Document LBA0000020060329e23t000m9


Page 9 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      EU says fines Tomra 24 mln euros in antitrust case
WC     242 words
PD      29 March 2006
ET       11:55 AM
SN      Reuters News
SC      LBA
LA       English
CY      (c) 2006 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, March 29 (Reuters) - The  European Commission said on Wednesday it had  fined Tomra , a Norwegian maker of machines that sort bottles and cans for recycling, 24 million  euros ($28.8 million) for abusing its dominance in the field.

The firm supplies machines, usually installed in retail outlets for the collection of used drink containers in return for a deposit, in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.

TD
It had signed contracts that gave Tomra the status of an exclusive supplier, imposed quantity targets and retroactive rebate schemes, the Commission said.

"Tomra's practices, consisting of a system of exclusivity agreements, quantity commitments and loyalty-inducing discounts, restricted or at least delayed the market entry of other manufacturers," the EU's executive arm said in a statement.

Tomra earlier announced that it had been  fined by the Commission.

Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said: "Rebates and discounts cannot be used by a dominant company as part of a strategy to exlude actual and potential competitors."
Reuters on Tuesday reported that the  Commission would decide that  Tomra had abused its position. The Commission was notified of the possible abuse by a German supplier of the machines which found
that it had been excluded from the market due to  Tomra's agreements with large retail companies.
($1=.8331  euro)
RF      MANUFACTURING-EU-TOMRA|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|DA|FN|NW|SW|RNP|PCO
IN        i64 : Retail/Wholesale

NS      c34 : Competition Issues | eec : European Union | genv : Environmental News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE      den : Denmark | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | neth : Netherlands | norw : Norway | swed : Sweden | weurz : Western Europe | benluxz : Benelux Countries | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia
IPC     MAC
PUB    Reuters Ltd.
AN      Document LBA0000020060329e23t000n1







Page 10 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



SE      Top News
HD      Tomra: Fined by the EU WC     153 words
PD      29 March 2006
SN      Lebensmittel Zeitung LZ/Net News
SC      LEBZE
LA      English
CY      (c) 2006 Verlagsgruppe Deutscher Fachverlag. All Rights Reserved.

LP
The European Commission has imposed a fine of EUR 24 million on the Norwegian manufacturer of reverse vending machines Tomra for violating EC Treaty competition rules on the abuse of a dominant position (Article 82).

The Commission has found that  Tomra abused its dominant position on the market for the supply of machines, usually installed in retail outlets, for the collection of used drink containers in return for a deposit, in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.

TD
The Commission concluded that  Tomra’s practices, consisting of a system of exclusivity agreements, quantity commitments and loyalty-inducing discounts, restricted or at least delayed the market entry of other manufacturers.

This constitutes a serious abuse of its dominant position. A lack of competition on a market can give rise to customers paying higher prices for the products concerned and to customers being offered less innovative products.

RF      5532
NS      eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB   Deutscher Fachverlag GmbH
AN      Document LEBZE00020060329e23t00001





























Page 11 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD           Tomra Gets EUR24M Fine From EU Commission
WC         249 words
PD          29 March 2006
ET           11:33 AM
SN          Dow Jones International News
SC          DJI
LA           English
CY          (c) 2006 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LP
Edited Press Release
STOCKHOLM (Dow Jones)--Norway's Tomra Systems ASA (TOM.OS) said Wednesday it has been
fined EUR24 million by the E.U. Commission.

TD
The commission has concluded that  Tomra in the period 1998 to 2002 foreclosed competition on the market for reverse vending machines in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden by implementing an exclusionary strategy.

In addition  Tomra has been required to bring to and end all agreements involving exclusivity and/or loyalty commitments.

Tomra said this was already implemented several years ago.

The company`s board will evaluate and assess how to respond to the  fine. If necessary,  Tomra is entitled to appeal the decision of the  Commission to the European Court of Justice within 2 months. Whether  Tomra will accept or appeal the decision will be communicated at a later point in time.

Tomra said it in September 2004 received the E.U.  Commission's Statement of Objections relating to the E.U.  Commission investigation in 2001.

Tomra filed its written response to the Statement of Objections in November 2004. In this response Tomra rejected the Commission`s arguments. Prior to the reception of the  Commission`s Statement of Objections, Tomra had also taken several actions to avoid potential future objections.

Therefore, regardless of the requirements that have been set forth by the  Commission in Wednesday`s decision,  Tomra said it Wednesday operates in accordance with current laws, rules and practices. [ 29-03-06 0942GMT ]
CO          tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN            i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines
NS          ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Release | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations | c12 : Corporate
Crime/Legal/Judicial | c34 : Competition Issues | eucom : European Commission | eec : European
Union | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter
RE          norw : Norway | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western
Europe
IPC         HDL
PUB        Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN          Document DJI0000020060329e23t000hz





Page 12 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          EU: Tomra Cornered Vending Market In Five Countries
WC         313 words
PD          29 March 2006
ET           11:45 AM
SN          Dow Jones International News
SC          DJI
LA           English
CY          (c) 2006 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LP
BRUSSELS (Dow Jones)--European regulators Wednesday  fined Norway's Tomra Systems ASA (TOM.OX) EUR24 million for violating antitrust rules by cornering the market for the supply of drink vending machines in five countries.

Tomra's practices of exclusivity agreements and loyalty discounts "restricted or at least delayed the market entry of other manufacturers," the  Commission said.

TD
The violations took place in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. [ 29-03-06
0945GMT ]

"I will not tolerate dominant companies hindering competition or excluding other players from the market, as this harms innovation and consumers," said Competition Commisioner Neelie Kroes. "Rebates and discounts cannot be used by a dominant company as part of a strategy to exclude actual and potential competitors."

Regulators said the abuses took place from 1998 to 2002. It cited  Tomra's practice of insisting on being the "exclusive supplier of the machines" and imposing "individualized quantity targets, or retroactive rebate schemes, the thresholds of which usually corresponded to total or almost total machine requirements of its customers."

A complaint from a German supplier of similar machines prompted the investigation, the regulator said. The regulator didn't name the company. It said the company complained that  Tomra's deals "with several large retail companies" blocked its access to the market.

E.U. officials then carried out dawn raids of  Tomra offices. These "provided evidence that  Tomra abused its dominant position by implementing a strategy to close off the market to actual and potential competitors.

"This illegal conduct enabled  Tomra to extend or artificially maintain its dominant position," the regulators said in a statement. "The abuse was done intentionally and with awareness of the harm they were likely to cause to competition on the market."
-By William Echikson,Dow Jones Newswires;32-2-741-1480; william.echikson@dowjones.com [
29-03-06 1009GMT ]

CO          tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN            i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines

NS          eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE          norw : Norway | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western
Europe
IPC         HDL
PUB        Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Page 13 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
AN          Document DJI0000020060329e23t000ii






































































Page 14 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      EU fines Norwegian  recycler  for canning  rivals
BY      LT
WC     253 words
PD      29 March 2006
ET       01:21 PM
SN      Agence France Presse
SC      AFPR
LA       English
CY      Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2006 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS, March 29, 2006 (AFP) -

EU anti-trust regulators  fined Norwegian recycling-machine maker  Tomra 24.0 million euros Wednesday for shutting out competition in the market for machines that collect used drink cans.

TD
The European Commission said that it had uncovered evidence that  Tomra had tried to keep rivals from entering the Austrian, Dutch, German, Norwegian and Swedish markets for machines that collect drink cans for a deposit in stores.

The European competition watchdog found that  Tomra used exclusivity agreements, quantity commitments and discounts aimed at securing clients' loyalty to hold back other manufacturers from elbowing into the market.

"I will not tolerate dominant companies hindering competition or excluding other players from the market, as this harms innovation and consumers," said Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes.

"Rebates and discounts cannot be used by a dominant company as part of a strategy to exclude tactual and potential competitors," she added.
The commission launched a probe after receiving a complaint from a German company.

Tomra said that it would study the  commission's decision to decide whether to appeal to the  European
Court of Justice, which it has the right to do over the next to months.

"The company's board of directors will evaluate and assess how to respond to the  fine," the company said in a statement.

Norway is not a member of the  European Union but is a member of the  European Economic Area and is therefore subject competition rulings from Brussels.
lt/hd
NS      eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE      norw : Norway | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe
IPD     EU
PUB    Agence France-Presse
AN      Document AFPR000020060329e23t005n1







Page 15 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.



HD     EU Commission fines Tomra Systems ASA EUR24m
WC    136 words
PD     29 March 2006
SN     Nordic Business Report
SC     NORD
LA      English
CY     (c) 2006 M2 Communications, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

LP
The Norwegian recycling technology group  Tomra Systems ASA said on Wednesday (29 March) that the European Commission had concluded that in the period 1998 to 2002 the company had foreclosed competition on the market for reverse vending machines in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden by implementing an exclusionary strategy.
Consequently, the  Commission has decided to fine the company EUR24m.

TD
In addition  Tomra is required to bring to and end all agreements involving exclusivity and/or loyalty commitments.
This was already implemented several years ago, according to the company.

Tomra's board of directors would evaluate and assess how to respond to the  fine.
One euro (EUR) is worth approximately 0.69 British pounds (GBP).
Comments on this story may be sent to nbr.feedback@nordicbusinessreport.com
CO     tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN       i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines
NS     eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations

RE     aust : Austria | gfr : Germany | neth : Netherlands | norw : Norway | swed : Sweden | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western Europe
PUB   M2 Communications, Ltd.
AN     Document NORD000020060329e23t000rt























Page 16 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     PACKAGING COLLECTION : RECORD FINE FOR TOMRA GROUP FOR ABUSE OF DOMINANT POSITION
WC     436 words
PD      30 March 2006
SN      Europolitics SC      EURREP VOL   3056
LA      English
CY      Copyright 2006 Europe Information Service All Rights Reserved

LP
The Norwegian group  Tomra has been fined 24 million for having abused its dominant position between
1998 and 2002 on the market for the supply of machines, usually installed in retail outlets, for the
collection of used drink containers in return for a deposit, in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway
and Sweden. The  fine, imposed by the  European Commission on 29 March under EC Treaty
competition rules (article 82) amounts to more than 7% of the group's global turnover, representing the
highest percentage ever in a competition case, according to  Commission sources (the Regulation states
that competition  fines should not exceed 10% of turnover).

TD
The Commission concluded that  Tomra's practices, consisting of a system of exclusivity agreements, quantity commitments and loyalty discounts, prevented or at least delayed the market entry of other manufacturers. The practices condemned by the decision include agreements which granted  Tomra the status of an exclusive supplier of the machines, and imposed individualised quantity targets, or refund schemes, the thresholds of which usually corresponded to total or almost total machine requirements of its customers. All of these practices, as implemented by  Tomra, aimed at restricting, and have restricted or seriously hindered, the ability of other machine suppliers to enter the market.

The Commission took a very dim view of the infringements. Practices, such as those implemented by Tomra, have previously condemned by the  Commission and by the EU's courts. When setting the amount of the fine, the Commission took into account the gravity of the infringement and its duration, i.e.
5 years. The fine of 24 million was imposed jointly and severally on the following subsidiaries of Tomra group: Tomra Systems ASA,  Tomra Europe AS, Tomra Systems B.V.,  Tomra Systems GmbH, Tomra Butikksystemer AS,  Tomra Systems AB and Tomra Leergutsysteme GmbH.

The Commission's investigation was triggered by a complaint from a German supplier of these machines, asking the  Commission to investigate whether  Tomra was abusing its dominant position, in particular through agreements made with several large retail companies thus preventing the German company's access to the market. Following this complaint, Commission officials, assisted by national authorities, carried out inspections at the premises of the Tomra group. The inspections provided
evidence that  Tomra was abusing its dominant position by implementing a strategy to close off the market to actual and potential competitors. This illegal conduct enabled  Tomra to extend or artificially maintain its dominant position. The abuses were carried out intentionally and knowing the harm they were likely to cause to competition in the market.

CO     tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN       i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines
NS      eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB   Europe Information Service SA
AN      Document EURREP0020060330e23u0000l




Page 17 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     Contents
WC     548 words
PD      30 March 2006
SN      Agence Europe
SC      AGEU
LA      English
CY      Not Available for Re-Dissemination, except as permitted by your subscriber agreement. (c) Agence
Europe, Brussels 2006. All rights reserved.

LP
A LOOK BEHIND THE NEWS



TD
* A Look Behind The News, by Ferdinando Riccardi: Energy and takeover bids: the powers of the
Commission and European legislation

THE DAY IN POLITICS



* (EU) EU/NETHERLANDS/CONSTITUTION: Dutch government asks for citizens' opinion for preparing its contribution to June summit
* (EU) EU/FUTURE OF  EUROPE/ITALY: President Ciampi supports setting up “avant-gardes”

* (EU) EP/FUTURE OF  EUROPE/PES: Pervenche Berès says third part of Constitution should be subject of negotiations opened by financial perspective review - Heads of state and government should become involved in work of completion of economic and monetary union
* (EU) EU/ISRAEL: Congratulations and expressions of hope from EU after elections

GENERAL NEWS



* (EU) EU/ENERGY:  Commission prepares to adopt package of infringement procedures for incorrect transposition of Community legislation

* (EU) EU/UNITED STATES/ENERGY: Negotiation procedure is launched for new agreement on energy efficiency programme, Energy Star

* (EU) EU/TRADE:  Commission welcomes international MCP agreement to boost trade in new generation of semiconductors

* (EU) EU/AGRICULTURE/AVIAN FLU:  Commission adopts proposal allowing for EU financial aid to eggs and poultry sector
* (EU) EU/epizootic: Protection measures against swine fever in Germany
* (EU) EU/SPRING SUMMIT/COMMISSION

* (EU) EU/COMPETITION/ENERGY: Suez calls on  Commission to analyse role of Italian state in Enel's management
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION/BANKING: More time for Poland to reply in “Unicredito/HBV” affair
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION:  Commission “warns” Microsoft over Windows Vista

Page 18 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Heavy  fine on Norwegian group Tomra (collection of used drink containers)
for abuse of dominant position
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Green light for acquisition of joint control of COSEC by Euler Hermes and BPI
* (EU) EU/HEALTH/TOBACCO: The toxicity of carbon monoxide

* (EU) EU/REGIONAL POLICY: Le Havre “Port 2000” to be inaugurated by Jacques Chirac, accompanied by Jacques Barrot and Danuta Hübner
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION:  Commission agrees Cargill's takeover of DFI
* (EU) EU/TRANSPORT COUNCIL/GALILEO
* (EU) EU/TRANSPORT COUNCIL
* (EU) EU/TRANSPORT COUNCIL

* (EU) EU/ECONOMY/PROTECTIONISM: Commissioner Almunia lambasts heralds of warped economic nationalism
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION:  Commission approves acquisition of BNL by BNP Paribas
* (EU) EU/ECB/IMF:  Eurozone “needs bigger IMF role” says Lorenzo Bini-Smaghi

* (EU) EP/ENERGY:  European Parliament sends strong message urging Union to adopt ambitious common external policy and voices criticism of “economic patriotism”
* (EU) EU/EP/ACP: Parliament urges  Commission to ensure economic partnership agreements serve
ACP development well - Call for alternative solutions to be examined
* (EU) EP/INSURANCE: Victims' association accuses United Kingdom of failing to comply with EU law in
Equitable Life affair

* (EU) EU/SOCIAL/WORKER MOBILITY: 25% of  Europeans  who move to another Member State do so for economic reasons, 30% for love, Pioneur project highlights

* (EU) EU/INTERNAL MARKET/SERVICES: Industry and unions clash over inclusion of temping agencies in "Services" directive -  EUROFOUND publishes comparative study of the sector for 28 countries
* (EU) EU/OECD: 2006 edition of statistics on economy, environment and society
* (EU) EU/TELECOMMUNICATIONS: MEPs support Mrs Reding's initiative on roaming charges - ETNO
less enthusiastic
* (EU) EU/COURT OF JUSTICE: Austria renews Judge Peter Jann's mandate for further six years
* (EU) Mergers-Acquisitions
* (EU) Investment
* (EU) Telecommunications
* (EU) Chemicals
* (EU) Pharmaceuticals
* (EU) Equipment
* (EU) Banking
* (EU) Banking
* €: VALUE IN DIFFERENT CURRENCIES ON 29/03/2006
CO     crdto : UniCredit S.p.A. | sfacc : Euler Hermes SA | agf : AGF Assurances | allanz : Allianz SE
IN       i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i82 : Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit
NS      eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
Page 19 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
PUB   Agence Europe SA
AN      Document AGEU000020060330e23u00001




































































Page 20 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Heavy fine on Norwegian  group Tomra (collection of used drink containers) for abuse of dominant position
WC    207 words
PD     30 March 2006
SN     Agence Europe
SC     AGEU
LA     English
CY     Not Available for Re-Dissemination, except as permitted by your subscriber agreement. (c) Agence
Europe, Brussels 2006. All rights reserved.

LP
Brussels, 29/03/2006 (Agence Europe) - On 29 March the  European Commission imposed a fine of €
24 million on Norwegian group Tomra for violating EC Treaty competition rules on the abuse of a
dominant position (Article 82). The Commission has found that  Tomra abused its dominant position on
the market for the supply of machines, in the collection of used drink containers on markets in Austria,
Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. The  Commission explained that  Tomra's practices,
consisted of a system of exclusivity agreements, quantity commitments and loyalty-inducing discounts,
which delayed (and even prevented) the market entry of other manufacturers between 1998 and 2002. A
Commission press release affirmed that  Tomra was guilty of “a serious abuse of its dominant position. A
lack of competition on a market can give rise to customers paying higher prices for the products
concerned and to customers being offered less innovative products”.

TD
The Commission's investigation was triggered by a complaint from a German supplier of these machines. In fixing the fine, the Commission took into account the gravity of the infringement and its duration, i.e. 5 years.

NS     eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB  Agence Europe SA
AN     Document AGEU000020060330e23u0000g




























Page 21 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       (AMM) EU regulators fine Tomra $29M for antitrust abuse
WC       330 words
PD        1 April 2006
ET        12:55 AM
SN        Metal Bulletin News Alert Service
SC        METBNA
LA        English
CY        (c) 2006 Metal Bulletin plc

LP
European regulators have imposed a 24-million-euro ($29-million) fine on Norwegian beverage container recycler Tomra Systems ASA for allegedly abusing the European Union's antitrust rules, according to a wire service report.

Tomra distributes reverse vending machines that issue deposit-fee coupons for used beverage cans and bottles. Its machines are prominent in Austria, Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.

TD
Tomra North America Inc., its Stratford, Conn.,-based unit whose reverse vending machines are most commonly seen in California, Michigan and New York, is not involved in the EU case. Calls to the company's North American offices seeking comment were not immediately returned.

An EU spokesman told reporters that the  fine, equaling 7 percent of  Tomra's global revenue, matched the seriousness of the company's alleged efforts to squeeze out competition. "This represents the highest ever percentage of worldwide turnover of a company  fined for violating the competition rules," he said.

European regulators stepped in after a German competitor complained that  Tomra's agreements with large retailers prevented it from doing business.

The European Commission found that  Tomra broke antitrust rules with "exclusionary" business methods in the five countries from 1998 to 2002. It struck deals that made  Tomra the only supplier of the machines and imposed quantity targets or rebate schemes that effectively forced customers to buy only from Tomra, the wire report said.

Neelie Kroes, EU competition commissioner, said companies that have the major share of a market cannot use rebates and discounts as part of a strategy to exclude actual and potential competitors. "All
of these practices as implemented by  Tomra . . . have restricted or seriously hindered the ability of other machine suppliers to enter the market efficiently," the  commission said.

Tomra said in a statement that it had ended all agreements involving exclusivity or loyalty commitments several years ago. "Tomra today operates in accordance with current laws, rules and practices," it said.
RF        1282115
CO       tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN         i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines

NS        eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD       Scrap & Secondary
PUB     Metal Bulletin PLC


Page 22 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
AN        Document METBNA0020060401e23v00009






































































Page 23 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       (AMM) EU regulators fine Tomra $29M for antitrust abuse
WC       328 words
PD        3 April 2006
ET        03:20 PM
SN        Metal Bulletin News Alert Service
SC        METBNA
LA        English
CY        (c) 2006 Metal Bulletin plc

LP
European regulators have imposed a 24-million-euro ($29-million) fine on Norwegian beverage container recycler Tomra Systems ASA for allegedly abusing the European Union's antitrust rules, according to a wire service report.

Tomra distributes reverse vending machines that issue deposit-fee coupons for used beverage cans and bottles. Its machines are prominent in Austria, Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.

TD
Tomra North America, its Connecticut,-based unit whose reverse vending machines are most commonly seen in California, Michigan and New York, is not involved in the EU case. Calls to the company's North American offices seeking comment were not immediately returned.

An EU spokesman told reporters that the  fine, equalling 7 percent of  Tomra's global revenue, matched the seriousness of the company's alleged efforts to squeeze out competition. "This represents the highest ever percentage of worldwide turnover of a company  fined for violating the competition rules," he said.

European regulators stepped in after a German competitor complained that  Tomra's agreements with large retailers prevented it from doing business.

The European Commission found that  Tomra broke antitrust rules with "exclusionary" business methods in the five countries from 1998 to 2002. It struck deals that made  Tomra the only supplier of the machines and imposed quantity targets or rebate schemes that effectively forced customers to buy only from Tomra, the wire report said.

Neelie Kroes, EU competition commissioner, said companies that have the major share of a market cannot use rebates and discounts as part of a strategy to exclude actual and potential competitors. "All of these practices as implemented by  Tomra...have restricted or seriously hindered the ability of other machine suppliers to enter the market efficiently," the  commission said.

Tomra said in a statement that it had ended all agreements involving exclusivity or loyalty commitments several years ago. "Tomra today operates in accordance with current laws, rules and practices," it said.
RF        1282115
CO       tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN         i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines

NS        eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD       Scrap & Secondary
PUB     Metal Bulletin PLC


Page 24 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
AN        Document METBNA0020060403e243001e1






































































Page 25 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD         INTERNATIONAL NEWS WC        2,231 words
PD         5 April 2006
SN         The Independent Business Weekly
SC         INDBUW
LA         English
CY         (c) 2006 The Independent Business Weekly

LP
The Australian arm of US investment group Citigroup was sued by the Australian Securities and Investments  Commission (ASIC) in Federal Court for alleged insider trading and conflict breaches. Citigroup bought shares in Patrick Corp last August, to the detriment of Citigroup client Toll Holdings, ASIC claims. Toll was preparing to launch a $A5 billion bid for stevedore Patrick.
Australia's trade deficit fell to $A595 million in February from $A2.476 billion in January, as exports rose
10% in adjusted terms while imports fell 2%, The Age reports. Economists were expecting a deficit of
$A1.8 billion.

TD
The Australian Securities and Investments  Commission will be quizzed in Senate hearings about whether it knew of problems with the now-collapsed Westpoint group but failed to act to protect investors.

Allco Equity Partners bowed out of the takeover battle for Wattyl, saying the paint company was tied up in talks with South African bidder Barloworld.

Australia ranked second only to the United States in numbers of initial public offerings (IPOs) in 2005 and fourth in terms of proceeds, reports Ernst & Young. Twenty-nine countries, including Brazil, Egypt, Greece, India, Israel, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Poland, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and the United Arab Emirates, each hosted more than $1 billion worth of IPOs last year.

Construction company Multiplex's delays on the Wembley Stadium forced Britain's Football Association to cancel some matches and concerts. The stadium will not open until 2007.
Flight Centre bought Chicago-based corporate travel management business Bannockburn Travel
Management in a deal worth about $A13 million.

Property player Lang Walker, 61, estimated to be worth around $A5 billion, has decided to cash out of his multibillion-dollar empire.

AMP chief executive Andrew Mohl was paid close to $A6 million last year when the wealth management group reported a fall in net profit.

Casinos won an exemption from tough new measures designed to combat money-laundering and terrorism financing.

Finance Minister Nick Minchin appointed board members to the Future Fund, set up to cover $A91 billion in pension liabilities for politicians, public servants and defence workers.

Foreign Minister Alexander Downer and Trade Minister Mark Vaile will provide statements to an inquiry on claims wheat exporter AWB paid kickbacks to Saddam Hussein's regime to win sales. A retired Australian judge is investigating allegations $US222 million in transport fees paid by AWB was channelled to Saddam.
Australian companies are on a borrowing spree as loans to companies jumped 16% in the year ended
in January, the quickest pace since 1989. The eight-member S&P/ASX 200 Banks Index has risen 14%
in the past six months.


Page 26 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Major Hollywood studios this week began selling internet downloads of their movies, including hits such as King Kong, the first time they have allowed US consumers to buy films online and keep them.
Constellation Brands, the world's largest wine company, will buy Canadian winemaker Vincor for
$C1.27 billion, representing a 16% premium on recent trading and topping its earlier $C1.1 billion bid.

Merck must face a potential $US9.6 billion national class action lawsuit brought by insurers and other parties that paid for withdrawn painkiller Vioxx taken by millions of patients, a New Jersey appeals court ruled. Merck will appeal.
Consumer spending rose by a weaker-than-expected 0.1% in February, compared with the 0.8%
increase in January, while personal incomes were up 0.3%, compared with the 0.7% January jump.

Microsoft, in talks with the  European Commission and seeking to avoid more than $US2 million in daily fines for not complying with a 2004 anti-trust ruling, said it now had clarity on what regulators sought. The EU disputes Microsoft's view it has followed the ruling and provided data to rivals.

Microsoft was also warned by EU competition commissioner Neelie Kroes its plans to integrate an internet search facility and several other programs into Vista, due out next year, could breach competition law.
Auto-parts supplier Delphi will seek to void labour contracts and sell or close most US plants. cutting
8,500 salaried jobs, as part of a plan to exit bankruptcy.

General Motors will sell most of its 7.9% stake in Japanese truck-maker Isuzu, to help in a major restructure.

Whirlpool can complete its $US1.68 billion takeover of Maytag, the Justice Department ruled, dismissing concerns about anti-competitiveness. The deal creates the world's largest appliance maker, accounting for 70% of US sales.

Corporations pocketed their strongest profit gains in four years in the closing quarter of 2005, the Commerce Department said. GDP increased at a 1.7% annual rate, down from the third quarter's 4.1%. The price index for personal spending excluding food and energy was 2.4%, compared with 1.4% in the third quarter.

Google plans to sell 5.3 million more shares to raise around $US2 billion, bringing to more than $US6 billion the total raised from stock sales in the past year. Google agreed to buy a 5% stake in Time Warner's America Online unit for $US1 billion and expand the companies' advertising partnership.

Nasdaq abandoned attempts to create the first trans-Atlantic sharemarket, refusing to raise its £2.4 billion bid for the London Stock Exchange.

Goodyear Tire & Rubber said the Securities and Exchange  Commission ended a two-and-a-half-year investigation of its accounting without seeking action against it or two former executives.

Jack Abramoff was sentenced to nearly six years' jail and  fined $US21.7 million after admitting he faked documents to get a $US60 million loan to buy the SunCruz fleet of gambling ships in 2000.

Lobbyist Abramoff is under investigation for allegedly giving clients favourable treatment in exchange for Republican campaign contributions.

Auto parts-maker Lear Corp secured $US800 million in new loans, sending its shares up 10%. Lear will shift most of its  European interior products business to a venture backed by billionaire financier Wilbur Ross in return for a 34% stake.

Fuel economy standards were raised for pick-up trucks and sport utility vehicles, to 24.1 miles per gallon by 2011. The government designed the change the government to reduce oil consumption without hurting struggling US auto-makers, Reuters reports.

EBay is being sued in the US Supreme Court by MercExchange, a small technology firm arguing the online auction house infringed two of its patents.

Cargill, the largest US agricultural company, secured EU approval to buy a unit of Degussa, convincing regulators the lecithin market would not be less competitive, Cargill is buying German ingredients manufacturer Degussa for $US671 million.

Venezuela assumed control of two oil fields operated by Total of France and Eni of Italy, after they failed to reach an agreement to transfer to new ventures giving state oil firm PDVSA a majority stake.
Page 27 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Mexican tycoon Carlos Slim will buy three Latin American operations from US telco Verizon for $US3.7 billion. Analysts told Reuters the move could be a precursor for Verizon to bid on the remainder of Verizon Wireless from partner Vodafone Group.

Bolivia will push the Inter-American Development Bank for a debt-relief package forgiving $US3.5 billion owed by the Andean nation and four other poor Latin American countries.

Publisher Hollinger International reported a 2005 loss of $US12 million and said first-quarter advertising revenue likely fell 6% from a year earlier.

CGI Group, Canada's biggest computer-services company, will cut about 1,000 jobs this year as contracts with telco giant BCE provide significantly lower revenue than forecast.

Paris-based Alcatel, the world's biggest maker of broadband internet equipment, agreed to buy US equipment-maker Lucent Technologies in a $US13.4 billion share swap aimed at trebling US sales. Alcatel shareholders will control 60% of the new company. About 10% of the workforce, or 8,800 jobs, will be eliminated in pursuit of ¤1.4 billion in savings in three years.

Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis increased its offer for the rest of US-based Chiron to $US5.33 billion, from $5.1 billion.

The European Commission said it would take several member states, including Germany, France, Belgium and Spain, to the European Court of Justice, alleging anti-competitive practices. Breaches include failure to separate energy generation from the transmission network and customer supplies, The Sunday Times reports.
Greece's National Bank will pay ¤2.3 billion for a 46% stake in Finansbank in Turkey, Reuters reports. French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin said a new youth-labour law remained the right strategy
for cutting unemployment, now at 20% among youth. Protest action is expected to resume, after
President Jacques Chirac's offer to weaken the most disputed parts of the law failed to stem opposition.

Swiss prosecutors charged 19 people, including former Swissair Group CEOs Philippe Bruggisser and Mario Corti, for their roles in the 2001 bankruptcy of the country's national airline. Charges include dishonest management, falsifying documents and breach of fiduciary responsibility.

Britain's Conservative Party will provide the Electoral  Commission with the names of all who lent it money, as debate intensifies about funding of political parties. Labour admits taking almost £14 million in loans from 12 supporters, four of whom were later nominated for seats in the House of Lords. Labour denies any connection.

Deutsche Bank supervisory board chairman Rolf Breuer resigned after a high court ruling went against him. Deutsche Bank and Breuer are fighting claims in 2002, as CEO, Breuer damaged Kirch Holding by casting doubt on its creditworthiness in 2002.

The British government will sell its nuclear clean-up company British Nuclear Group next year. The cost of cleaning up ageing nuclear power sites could be around £70 billion, or £14 billion more than previously estimated, officials said.

Gerhard Schröder, former German chancellor turned advocate for the Russian gas giant Gazprom, will be paid ¤250,000 a year as chairman of the committee of shareholders of a controversial project to pipe Russian gas to Germany.
EU members asked the  European Commission to consider complaining to the World Trade
Organisation about Chinese tariffs on imported car parts.

Richard Branson says his Virgin Group is on track to become the world's first commercial spaceline, with suborbital flights for space tourists to start in 2008. Virgin Galactic will offer space flights for
$US200,000, and says it has taken $US13.1 million in deposits, Reuters reports.

The EU will likely compensate poultry farmers for falling prices linked to consumers' bird flu fears. Aid for production cuts will be conditional on governments matching the payments.

Apple Corps, owned by Paul McCartney, Ringo Starr, John Lennon's widow, Yoko Ono, and the estate of George Harrison, accused Apple Computer of violating a 1991 agreement by using the Apple name and logo to sell music downloads through its market-leading iTunes Music Store. The case is being heard in the High Court at London.


Page 28 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Associated British Ports rejected an indicative takeover offer worth around £2.2 billion from a Goldman Sachs-led consortium. New York-based Goldman bid as part of a group including an Ontario retirement fund and a private equity fund of the Singaporean government.

Irish investors face eroding rental returns as house prices continue to rise, Davy Stockbrokers says. House prices increased 52% in the past five years, while rents fell 2%.

Tomra Systems, a Norwegian maker of machines that collect cans and bottles for recycling, was  fined
¤24 million by the EU for stifling competition with its rebates and discounts to retailers.

Nigeria will get a $US50 million loan from the World Bank to help stem the spread of bird flu and compensate farmers for slaughtering fowl infected by the H5N1 virus.
South Africa will strengthen competition laws in a bid to reduce steel and chemical prices, and scrap a
5% import duty on some primary carbon and stainless steel products.

Climate change is likely to significantly affect economies in the Asia-Pacific region, the World Bank says, noting rising sea levels, intense storms and droughts and floods threatened millions of people's lives and livelihoods. Asian-Pacific countries should promote energy efficiency to cut the emission of greenhouse gases, the bank says.

The yen dropped as the Bank of Japan reported business confidence unexpectedly fell in March, fuelling speculation the central bank will keep its zero-interest-rate policy for the foreseeable future. Stocks rose and bonds fell as the outlook for June was for improvement, matching forecasts.

The yen has weakened 8.9% against the US dollar in the past year as Japanese investors sought higher-yielding assets abroad.

China's Ministry of Commerce says the  European Union's decision to impose duties on some Chinese footwear would reduce profits at EU shoemakers with factories in China.
Indian pharmaceutical firm Ranbaxy Laboratories is buying Romania's leading generic drug producer
Terapia for $US324 million.

Silver futures for May delivery rose 24.5 cents, or 2.3%, to $US11.15 an ounce on the Comex division of the NY Mercantile Exchange, the highest since September 1983. Gold hit a seven-week peak just shy of last month's 25-year peak around $US575 an ounce.

Crude oil for May delivery rose 11 cents to $US66.74 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures touched $US67.90, the highest intraday price since 1 February. Prices have risen 17% in the past year.

NS         cinsdl : Insider Dealing | nsum : News Digest | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c18 : Ownership Changes | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
RE         nz : New Zealand | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
PUB      Independent Business Weekly
AN         Document INDBUW0020060404e24500011



















Page 29 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     PACKAGING COLLECTION : RECORD FINE FOR TOMRA GROUP FOR ABUSE OF DOMINANT POSITION
WC     436 words
PD      7 April 2006
SN      Europolitics Agriculture
SC      AGIE
VOL   0197
LA      English
CY      Copyright 2006 Europe Information Service All Rights Reserved

LP
The Norwegian group  Tomra has been fined 24 million for having abused its dominant position between
1998 and 2002 on the market for the supply of machines, usually installed in retail outlets, for the
collection of used drink containers in return for a deposit, in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway
and Sweden. The  fine, imposed by the  European Commission on 29 March under EC Treaty
competition rules (article 82) amounts to more than 7% of the group's global turnover, representing the
highest percentage ever in a competition case, according to  Commission sources (the Regulation states
that competition  fines should not exceed 10% of turnover).

TD
The Commission concluded that  Tomra's practices, consisting of a system of exclusivity agreements, quantity commitments and loyalty discounts, prevented or at least delayed the market entry of other manufacturers. The practices condemned by the decision include agreements which granted  Tomra the status of an exclusive supplier of the machines, and imposed individualised quantity targets, or refund schemes, the thresholds of which usually corresponded to total or almost total machine requirements of its customers. All of these practices, as implemented by  Tomra, aimed at restricting, and have restricted or seriously hindered, the ability of other machine suppliers to enter the market.

The Commission took a very dim view of the infringements. Practices, such as those implemented by Tomra, have previously condemned by the  Commission and by the EU's courts. When setting the amount of the fine, the Commission took into account the gravity of the infringement and its duration, i.e.
5 years. The fine of 24 million was imposed jointly and severally on the following subsidiaries of Tomra group: Tomra Systems ASA,  Tomra Europe AS, Tomra Systems B.V.,  Tomra Systems GmbH, Tomra Butikksystemer AS,  Tomra Systems AB and Tomra Leergutsysteme GmbH.

The Commission's investigation was triggered by a complaint from a German supplier of these machines, asking the  Commission to investigate whether  Tomra was abusing its dominant position, in particular through agreements made with several large retail companies thus preventing the German company's access to the market. Following this complaint, Commission officials, assisted by national authorities, carried out inspections at the premises of the Tomra group. The inspections provided
evidence that  Tomra was abusing its dominant position by implementing a strategy to close off the market to actual and potential competitors. This illegal conduct enabled  Tomra to extend or artificially maintain its dominant position. The abuses were carried out intentionally and knowing the harm they were likely to cause to competition in the market.

CO     tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN       i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines
NS      eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB   Europe Information Service SA
AN      Document AGIE000020060410e2470000i




Page 30 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          EARNINGS POLL-Tomra analysts  see Q1 profit  rally
WC         646 words
PD          11 April 2006
ET          04:32 PM
SN          Reuters News
SC          LBA
LA           English
CY          (c) 2006 Reuters Limited

LP
OSLO, April 11 (Reuters) - Norwegian recycling equipment maker  Tomra's first-quarter operating profit is forecast to surge to 90 million crowns ($13.94 million) from 10 million a year earlier, a Reuters
survey of analysts showed.

Revenues were seen growing by 16.5 percent in January-March to 698 million crowns, according to the average of eight estimates, as a new German bottle and can deposit system widened the company's markets significantly.

TD
Tomra is due to report first-quarter results on April 19.

After a string of setbacks and delays,  Tomra began to win orders from German retailers for its reverse vending machines (RVMs), during the third quarter of 2005.

Tomra has estimated that the German market will need between 30,000 and 40,000 machines, and aims for a market share of 50 to 70 percent.

So far the company has received orders for over 8,000 machines in Germany, but only about 1,000 of these will affect revenues in the first quarter. So analysts predicted strong revenue growth in coming quarters.

The company was recently  fined 24 million euros by the European Commission for alledgedly abusing its market dominance. The company said it had not decided if it would apeal the verdict, but added that it had changed its behaviour.
Estimates do not include any charges related to the  fine.

The stock has risen by 86 percent over the last 12 months, valuing the company at 9.6 billion crowns. The energy-dominated Oslo bourse has meanwhile seen its benchmark index <.OSEBX> rise 53 percent.
Estimates for first quarter 2006:


Mean  Median    High     Low  No* Yr ago
Revenue (group)         698     703     741     629   8   599
- RVM technology        419     418     458     368   8   250
- Materials handling    201     201     215     190   8   187
- Recycling tech         78      75     100     67   8    66
- Other non-deposit       0       0       0      0   3    96
EBIT (group)             90      94     110      63   8    10
Pretax profit            93      98     112      66   8    14
Net profit               59      65      74     42   8     9
EPS                    0.33    0.37    0.41    0.23   8  0.04

Estimates for full year 2006:
Mean  Median    High     Low *No. Yr ago
Revenue (group)       4,382   4,362   5,338   3,529   8 2,662
Page 31 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
- RVM technology      3,051   2,932   4,019   2,241   7 1,183
- Materials handling    903     901     930     881   7   848
- Recycling tech        420     420     448     403   7   379
- Other non-deposit       0       0       0      0   3   252
EBIT (group)            836     826     920     766   8    67
Pretax profit           852     840     943     781   8    81
Net profit              569     574     613     524   8     8
EPS                    3.17    3.15    3.43    2.94   8  0.05
Dividend per share     0.40    0.40    0.40    0.39   2  0.35
Estimates for full year 2007:
Mean   Median    High     Low No* Revenue (group)       4,212   4,382   4,894   3,099   7
- RVM technology      2,954   2,892   3,313   2,726   5
- Materials handl       939     945     976     898   5
- Recycling tech        457     452     490     437   5
EBIT (group)            863     847     982     779   7
Pretax profit           889     870   1,009     816   7
Net profit              592     577     680     531   7
EPS                    3.32    3.23    3.81    2.97   7
Dividend per share     0.61    0.61    0.80    0.42   2

NOTES:
*)"No" denotes the number of estimates.
- RVM technology, Materials handing and Recycling tech(nology) are the main business divisions.
- The above figures were compiled from data gathered for Reuters by Inquiry Financial Intelligence. Partcipating banks and brokerages (recommendations on the  Tomra share in right-hand column):


ABG SUNDAL COLLIER               BUY CARNEGIE                         OUTPERFORM DANSKE EQUITIES                  BUY
DNB NOR MARKETS                  BUY FIRST SECURITIES                 BUY FONDSFINANS                      BUY KAUPTHING                        BUY
SEB ENSKILDA                     ACCUMULATE

RF          MANUFACTURING-TOMRA (EARNINGS POLL)|LANGEN|Table|ABN|E|RBN|DA|FN|NW|SW
IN           i64 : Retail/Wholesale | ifood : Food Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco

NS          c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | c152 : Earnings Projections | genv : Environmental News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
RE          eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | norw : Norway | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union
Countries | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia
IPC         MAC
PUB        Reuters Ltd.
AN          Document LBA0000020060411e24b0012m













Page 32 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Norwegian  Tomra Pre-tax Profit Seen at 11.9 Mln Euro Q1 2006
WC       370 words
PD        12 April 2006
SN        Norwegian News Digests
SC        NORWPD
LA        English
CY        (c) Copyright 2006 AII Data Processing Ltd. All Rights Reserved. News digest produced by AII Data Processing Ltd. For further details of international press reviews: , e-mail: adp@aiidatapro.com; Tel.:+359 2 987 64 98; Fax: +359 2 986 17 13.

LP
Norwegian recycling systems group Tomra Systems ASA is expected to post a pre-tax profit of 93 mln Norwegian crowns ($14.4 mln/11.9 mln euro) in the first quarter of 2006, up from 13.5 mln crowns ($2.1 mln/1.7 mln  euro) a year earlier, local financial consultant TDN Finans forecast on April 12, 2006.
Operating revenue is estimated at 708 mln crowns ($109.9 mln/90.5 mln  euro).

TD
TDN Finans forecast was based on the estimates of seven analysts, polled by Swedish financial consultancy SME Direkt on behalf of TDN Finans.

Tomra is currently in talks on the extension of its ongoing pilot programme in the UK, under which Tomra Recycling Centers (TRCs) are being installed at supermarkets of UK grocery chain Tesco. In the fourth quarter of 2005,  Tomra installed the sixth and final recycling centre with Tesco. The possible
roll-out of  Tomra solutions in the entire Tesco system will generate revenue of between 300 mln crowns
($46.6 mln/38.3 mln  euro) and 400 mln crowns ($62.1 mln/51.1 mln  euro), TDN Finans reported.
In relation with the interim report for the fourth quarter of 2005, the group's president and CEO Amund
Skarholt said the company targeted an organic growth of 5.0 pct to 10 pct in 2006.

Tomra estimates a total demand for 30,000 to 40,000 reverse vending machines on the German market, where the group predicts a market share of between 50 pct and 70 pct. At the end of 2005,  Tomra held two-thirds of the German market.

On March 29, 2006 the  European Commission fined the group 24 mln euro ($29.2 mln), having concluded that  Tomra in the period 1998 to 2002 foreclosed competition on the market for reverse vending machines in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden by implementing an exclusionary strategy.

Tomra will release its quarterly report on April 19, 2006.

www.dn.no
Source: Dagens Naeringsliv (DP/RL/DP)
CO       tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN         iewm : Environment/Waste Management | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending
Machines
NS        c15 : Performance | nabst : Abstract | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
RE        norw : Norway | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western
Europe
PUB     Aii Data Processing Limited
AN        Document NORWPD0020060412e24c000m9



Page 33 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        UPDATE 1-Tomra Q1 profit  up,to appeal EU anti-trust ruling
WC       265 words
PD        19 April 2006
ET         04:43 PM
SN        Reuters News
SC        LBA
LA         English
CY        (c) 2006 Reuters Limited

LP
(Adds details)

OSLO, April 19 (Reuters) - Norwegian recycling equipment maker  Tomra reported on Wednesday a bigger jump in first-quarter operating profit than expected and said it would challenge an EU
anti-competition ruling.

TD
Tomra reported first-quarter earnings before interest and tax of (EBIT) of 123 million Norwegian crowns
($19.41 million) versus 5 million crowns during the same period last year.

A Reuters poll of eight analysts had forecast first quarter EBIT of between 63 million and 110 million crowns.

"Tomra's board of directors has decided to appeal the EU Commission's decision ,"  Tomra said in a statement. Last month the EU said it would  fine Tomra 24 million euros ($29.62 million) for
anti-competitive behaviour between 1998 and 2002.

Tomra machines exchange bottles and cans for a deposit, and the company had pinned hopes of a take-off in the German retail market after Germany's parliament introduced a law extending recycling.
German supermarkets started ordering recycling machines in the second half of last year and  Tomra
has estimated the market will take between 30,000 and 40,000 machines. It is aiming for a market share
of between 50 and 70 percent.

"Strong performance in all areas,"  Tomra's statement said. "Germany on track. Orders received support market share ambitions."

Tomra's revenue grew to 822 million crowns in the first quarter from 504 million crowns during the same period last year.
RF         MANUFACTURING-TOMRA (UPDATE 1)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|NW|RNP|DNP|PCO
IN          ifood : Food Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco

NS        c151 : Earnings | eec : European Union | genv : Environmental News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE        eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | norw : Norway | weurz : Western
Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia
IPC       RES
PUB      Reuters Ltd.
AN        Document LBA0000020060419e24j0018k



Page 34 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD          Tomra profit  up, to appeal EU's anti-trust ruling
WC         145 words
PD          19 April 2006
ET          04:52 PM
SN          Reuters News
SC          LBA
LA          English
CY          (c) 2006 Reuters Limited

LP
OSLO, April 19 (Reuters) - Norwegian recycling equipment maker  Tomra reported on Wednesday a higher than expected jump in first quarter operating profit and said it would challenge an EU
anti-competition ruling.

Tomra reported first quarter earnings before interest and tax of (EBIT) of 123 million Norwegian crowns
($19.41 million) versus five million during the same period last year.

TD
A Reuters poll of eight analysts had forecast first quarter EBIT of between 63 million and 110 million crowns.

"Tomra's board of directors has decided to appeal the EU Commission's decision ,"  Tomra said in a statement. Last month the EU said it would  fine Tomra 24 million euros ($29.62 million) for
anti-competitive behaviour between 1998 and 2002.

RF          MANUFACTURING-TOMRA (URGENT)|LANGEN|ABN|E|RBN|NW|RNP|DNP|PCO
IN           ifood : Food Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco

NS          c151 : Earnings | genv : Environmental News | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
RE          eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | norw : Norway | weurz : Western Europe | eecz : European Union
Countries | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia
IPC         RES
PUB       Reuters Ltd.
AN          Document LBA0000020060419e24j0019c




















Page 35 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       Norwegian  Tomra Q1 2006 Net Profit Surges to 10.8 Mln Euro
WC      302 words
PD       19 April 2006
SN       Danish News Digest
SC       DANIPD
LA        English
CY       (c) Copyright 2006 AII Data Processing Ltd. All Rights Reserved. News digest produced by AII Data Processing Ltd. For further details of international press reviews: , e-mail: adp@aiidatapro.com; Tel.:+359 2 987 64 98; Fax: +359 2 986 17 13.

LP
Norwegian recycling systems group  Tomra Systems ASA said its net profit surged to 84 mln Norwegian crowns ($13.2 mln/10.8 mln  euro) for the first quarter of 2006 from 8.9 mln crowns ($1.4 mln/1.1 mln euro) for the same quarter of 2005.
***

TD
Below are Tomra Q1 2006 results according to new IFRS accounting standards.
......................................Q1 '06.........Q1 '05..............2005 (in mln crowns, unless otherwise stated)
Operating revenue.........822.4...........503.8...............2,413
Gross contribution.........313.2...........185..................910.7
Operating profit.............123.4...........4.7...................133
Pre-tax profit.................125.4...........8.5...................147.5
Net profit........................84................8.9...................21.9
EPS (in crowns)..............0.47............0.04.................0.05
Total assets.....................3,087..........3,370...............2,993 (1.0 crown = $0.158/0.128  euro)

Tomra's revenue in Europe surged 142 pct. In Germany, the group has so far received orders for some
9,400 reverse vending machines. Almost 5,400 of them were ordered in the first quarter of 2006.  Tomra
installed 1,300 new machines and upgraded 700 existing machines.

Tomra registered strong performance in all business areas.

The group board of directors decided to appeal the decision of the the  European Commission (EC), announced on March 29, 2006 to  fine Tomra 24 mln euro ($29.5 mln). The decision was based on the conclusion that  Tomra in the period 1998 to 2002 foreclosed competition on the market for reverse vending machines in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden by implementing an exclusionary strategy.

http://www.tomra.com/
Source:  Tomra Systems (DP/RL/DP)
CO       tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN         i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines


Page 36 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
NS       c15 : Performance | nabst : Abstract | ntab : Table | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
RE       norw : Norway | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | weurz : Western
Europe
PUB     Aii Data Processing Limited
AN       Document DANIPD0020060419e24j000jh






























































Page 37 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.




HD   Q1 2006 Tomra Systems ASA Earnings  Presentation - Final
WC  4,878 words
PD   19 April 2006
SN   Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
SC   FNDW
LA    English
CY   © Voxant Inc. All rights reserved.

LP
AMUND SKARHOLT, PRESIDENT & CEO,  TOMRA SYSTEMS ASA: Okay, let me wish you welcome to TOMRA's Q1 presentation 2006. And together with me I have Espen Gundersen, our CFO, and Vice President Investor Relations, Håkon Volldal.

I'll start with the highlights and I'll -- maybe I should start with the conclusion, and the conclusion of the first quarter is that we are very pleased with the performance. Not only the performance of the financials in the first quarter, but also the momentum we have been able to create during the quarter, also moving forward into the rest of 2006 and also moving into the future years of  TOMRA's development.

TD
I know that a lot of our employees is following this webcast and maybe you find it a little strange that I'm using an external meeting to thank you, our internal people, but that's a very efficient way to say thank you to all my colleagues in North America and in  Europe. And maybe some friends in Tokyo if they're still awake, following this webcast. So thank you to all of our employees who have contributed to this excellent performance in the quarter.

If we look at performance, the performance both from revenues, operating profits and cash flow is very strong. A lot of this is coming from Germany, but if I summarized I could basically say that all business areas in all geographies are performing extremely well for the quarter and also compared to previous quarters.
When it comes to Germany we are on track. We have so far received close to 9,500 orders, to be precise
9,400. And we have received 5,400 orders during the first quarter.

The production and the installation, if I go back four months we have the tremendous ramp-up of production moving from a yearly volume of approximately 3,000 machines, and in the week before Easter we basically had produced more than we had produced in 2005, from a total production point of view.
We have installed 1,300 machines in Germany and we have installed and upgraded 700 machines, so
all-in-all we have 2,000 upgrades and machines to Germany during the [technical difficulty] [patience] we
had on the working capital need was over-assessed and our customers have been able and willing and
promoted to pay very quickly. And therefore the need for working capital has been far less than the
expected sum four or five months ago.

TESCO and Sumitomo is developing very well, although we don't have any final decision on any date for signing of an agreement and content of an agreement, but the development is extremely positive. And our Board of Directors has also today decided to appeal the  European Commission ruling which we got just before the Easter. And we will then appeal this decision for the -- into the First Court of Instance in the European Commission.

If you then move also to some semantics or whatever we call them, we have also decided to change some names in our business areas, basically because we are seeing that when we would like to develop  TOMRA to a technology provider in the recycling business, handling, packaging and wholesale waste. And in that perspective we feel that the naming of our business segments are not the correct one so we are now renaming the business segments from RBM Technology to Collection Technology. So in the future when
the PRC and TESCO and the U.K. are commercialized that will be part of the Collection Technology, some sort of business segment.
Material Handling will be still the Material Handling and it's basically a U.S. operation. And when it comes to
Recycling Technology we are renaming that to Industrial and Processing Technology. Basically because

Page 38 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
it's a some sort of process in the back end of the recycling chain and we feel that Processing Technology related to industrial operations is a far better name for that business segment.

And we have also then, based on the fact that we are not having the operation in Brazil anymore, the other non-deposit initiative is now basically a development initiatives which will then support the other business areas with revenues when they have commercialized the various projects we are developing.

There is no change in whole revenues. Costs and assets are allocated so that's basically the same way as before.

Looking to the quarter itself and the financials, of course we came out of a very weak first quarter last year. And for comparison's sake we have -- are now comparing all figures without Brazil. So Brazil is taken out of the 2005 figures according to the IFRS continuing operations definition.

When we look to the various business areas and business segments, all of the business segments have significant organic growth. The Collection Technology more than 100% growth. The Material Handling, if we measure and then we measure in the U.S. dollar, it's a double-digit growth, and Industrial Processing Technology have more than 50% growth.

If we measure also how much of our business is coming from sales and service of technology, basically Collection Technology and Industrial Processing Technology, 73% out of our revenues came from sale and service of technology.

We have also been able to improve our gross margin through the period from 37% to 38% and we have also taken, in fact, the rapid growth and the high growth rate we have. We are also satisfied with the fact that the cash flow over the period is of NOK36m positive. The total revenue growth over the period is 63%.

If I then go to the Collection Technology, sometimes I will probably say RDM Technology for a week or two, but I will try to stick to the new definitions. If we then first look at the Collection Technology, it's of course heavily impacted by the German operation. But we see also a revenue increase in the Nordic operation of
12%. We have a significant growth in Holland based on the new deposit legislation as of January 1, but of course Germany also impacting the figures heavily.

In addition we have, in U.S. dollar measured we also have a growth in the U.S. of approximately 10% from last quarter.

In light of Germany and the price pressure we are experiencing related to the high volumes and the competitiveness of our competitors, we are very satisfied by keeping the gross margin on the 44% level for the whole business segment as a total, as Germany is impacting this margin heavily by the volumes.

When it comes to the operating expenses last year we introduced a cost-saving program of approximately NOK80m on a yearly basis, NOK25m of this is related to the costs and NOK55m is related to the OpEx. The increase in the OpEx here, from NOK92m to NOK106m this year, NOK10m of this is of a one-time nature related to some insurance payments being paid in the first quarter this year, or the second quarter last year, and some severance pay related to some people leaving us.

The ramp-up in Germany has costs of approximately NOK10m compared to last year. So if I adjust for those two elements the reduction in the OpEx is in the range of NOK67m which is the quarterly portion of the total year's savings on OpEx. We feel very confident with having the OpEx under very strict control.

If I look to the various countries, of course as I said the figures and the revenues is increasing by 142% from last year, 1,300 new machines shipped to Germany, 700 upgrades. The strong performance in Holland based on the change of legislation continues.

The Nordic replacement campaign has still not impacted the figures heavily, although we see an increase in revenues in the Nordic region of approximately 12%.

Order-taking in Germany, 5,400 during the first quarter versus 9,400 for the whole period, and we have also starting out to see some sort of effect of the marketing resources we have put in to the marketing of UNO. What's more important than maybe the fact that we have sold and installed 400 UNOs during the quarter, is the fact that we are now testing the UNO to several large-volume potential customers, especially in the German market related to, for instance, gas stations and small shop or small corner shops.

If I then go the main markets for UNOs so far, where we are putting some dedicated resources, it's basically the Nordic countries plus Germany. But of course Germany is here a -- by far the country with far the biggest potential.



Page 39 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
North America at 9% from last year, measured in dollars, and it's basically related to some favorable timing and push forward of installation related to a big contract we got here in January from a retailer in Michigan. In number of machines, we have installed 350 machines in the first quarter versus 250 machines last year.

When it comes to Germany we still feel confident with our estimate of the total demand in Germany over the 2.5 year period, being in the range of 30 to 40,000 machines. And so far up to close to 50% of this estimate has been placed as orders to ourselves and competitors. Some large discounters have not yet decided what to do and when to do it and who to do it together with and that basically represents an order volume of approximately 4,000 machines by two customers.

The remaining orders in Germany will then come from hypermarkets and supermarkets which then will order machines in smaller quantities during the second half of this year and into 2007.

You should remember in this 30 to 40,000 estimate of machines in Germany that we are still then just talking about the penetration level of machines per inhabitants which is close to half of what it is in the Nordic countries. It's approximately one machine per 2,000 inhabitants versus when we -- when in the Nordic countries, Finland, Norway and Sweden, we have approximately one machine per 1,000 inhabitants.

We are on track to achieve our ambition of 50 to 70% market share, currently around 60%-plus. And orders for 7,900 machines, 1,500 upgrades have been placed so far. We will not announce single orders which
are not below 300 machines, for the future. So we will then give updates now and then on the total numbers, but we don't see any need for announcing orders for 10 machines or 100 machines or 200 machines here and there. But if we reach approximately 300 machines and upwards we will make announcements individually on that.

When it comes to the roll-out of the machines we installed 2,000 -- 1,300 machines, 700 upgrades during the first quarter, and if we then move into the next quarters the current estimate is to instal 3,000 machines in the second quarter, 2,300 third quarter and then 2,000 machines in the fourth quarter.

This is then estimates based on the current order backlog. Whatever comes in addition to this we basically have production capacity and delivery capacity available for any kind of numbers as from mid-May this year.

You should also be aware of the fact that the installations of 700 upgrades in the first quarter proportionally is relatively higher towards the total number installed in first quarter and that will significantly drop in the months or the quarters to come when it will drop proportionally from 35% down to 11%.

When we started this project in Germany we estimated that 5,000 out of our 7,500 machines were potential upgrades and so far we have got orders for 1,500 out of that 5,000 potential. So there is potentially 3,500 upgrades still not being ordered or decided on.

Of course to be exact on this is pretty difficult, but this is our current best estimate. To give you a -- some sort of perspective of the challenges related to this roll-out, on Monday, Tuesday, last week a custom employee in the border line between Poland and Germany was not satisfied with the documents we had, which had been okay for two months. And he stopped ten lorries for two hours and basically he stopped
100 RVMs on the way into Germany. And they were all ready to do it, of course he released it the day after, but of course bumps like that is extremely important to avoid.

So we are basically and currently installing close to 100 machines per day in Germany, to give you a perspective of the speed we are currently up for.

Materials Handling, which is a U.S. operation, the improvement from last year is continuing. We have a 9% growth in U.S. dollars. The gross margin is steadily improving from 18 to 20% and then you look on the OpEx increase from NOK26 to NOK29m, all of this is of a one-time nature based on the fact that we paid some insurance premiums in the first quarter this year versus the second quarter of last year. So the run rate on the OpEx is more or less flat compared to the first quarter last year. And we are close to doubling the profitability of the Materials Handling in the West Coast and the East Coast.

We should also remember looking at these figures with some sort of low margins, that this is a volume business and currently it's a low season in beverage containers in the U.S. because of the seasonality of the heat and the consumption of carbonated soft drinks, beer, water, whatever. This is a summer business, but already now in the winter seasons we are on a profitability level of approximately 7%.

Revenues in the East Coast, Canada up 5% in local currencies, 2% of this is driven by volumes and 3%, approximately 3% driven by price increases, fee increases. We are continuing to consolidate our operation on the East Coast in the New York area. And this will further yield performance improvements on the gross margin.
Page 40 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The U.S. West California business is getting better and better, of course by the fact that we are increasing the number of sites, collecting volumes. The volume itself is increasing. And, of course, the aluminum prices, the commodity prices is also supporting the growth.

We are continuing to strengthen the business model, to be a more model related to technology, and closer to our retail customers. And we are very confident with the development on the Californian market.

Industrial Processing Technology, which is basically our TiTech and Orwak operation. Of course, you could say it's not that difficult to improve, because last quarter was terrible. But all in all the improvement is significant. And it's coming out of a 50% increase in revenue, where TiTech is growing far faster than Orwak. You can get a clear picture on the effect of that when you look at the gross margin, moving from
43% last year to 49% last year. And the basic reason for that is the proportionally higher growth in TiTech compared to Orwak.

What's also extremely important in this perspective is TiTech's dependency on Germany historically has been very high. What we now see is that we are opening markets and getting acceptance for TiTech and also Orwak-type of equipment, in new markets like Spain, like Italy, like the U.S., like in the Far East. So strategically the first quarter for TiTech especially has been a tremendously important quarter, by opening new market opportunities.

We also see that we have been able to reduce our OpEx and that's coming all out of Orwak. TiTech has increased their OpEx because we have put more marketing and sales resources into the organization, while Orwak has been through a restructuring, reducing their OpEx.

As I said, the demand for Orwak or for TiTech-type of technology and equipment is very favorable currently, basically because of the strict regulations in the various markets. Also the increased acceptance for the usage of this type of equipment. And, of course, also by the fact that we have put more marketing resources into the organization.

Germany is still performing very strong, and the dependency on the German market is still high. But is far less dependent on the German performance compared to previous years. And they also move out of the first quarter with a record high order backlog.

Orwak is now back on track from some sort of slow start last year. And both sales and performance are now on a satisfactory level. The cost reduction programs we made last year is now yielding. And we also see an increased sales, and also an increase in the order backlog, moving into the future.

If we look at the order backlog, or if we go back and look at the revenue, we had a 50% increase in revenue in the first quarter. We also had a 50% increase in the order backlog from last quarter. So there is a significant improvement and speed on these two businesses compared to a year ago.

And then we go into the development initiatives, and for the future, in this area, we will some sort of focus, and give you a perspective of the various development initiatives we are currently working on in  TOMRA. Fueling future growth within our various business areas. And we will track this from a cost point of view, basically to give you an indication of the efforts we are putting into development. And some sort of perspective of the opportunities related to these efforts and investments.

Of course, the main project currently is the Tesco project in the U.K. The project we are doing together with Sumitomo in Japan. But there are also several other projects we are funding and spending money on in the various other parts of the world.

From an operational point of view, from a cost point of view, we used more or less the same amount of money first quarter, approximately NOK16m compared to the same level first -- in the first quarter last year. The revenues of NOK1m in coming out of some sales of equipment to some wards and municipalities in Tokyo.

When it comes to the U.K. and Japan, the only thing you can use history is to learn from. And we were a little some sort of, maybe offensive when we said that we will have a decision by Tesco by the end of first quarter, when we stood here in February. And unfortunately I am not able to tell you what that decision is yet, because Tesco has not decided yet. So we will be very careful with giving any dates, and any contents on when Tesco or Sumitomo will decide, whatever they will decide.

But I must admit that we are extremely confident that we will get agreements with both Tesco and Sumitomo. When it comes to further development of the projects we currently -- we are currently running together with them. But I will be very cautious to give you any dates, and any some sort of perspective of the content of those deals.


Page 41 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
But both the content of the deals and the speed of the process is improving day by day. But I will not do the same mistake again to say, ah, we will do it in the second quarter, or May 6, or whatever. But in due time we will inform you about what's happening and what's the consequences. But all in all it's a very positive process currently.

When it comes to Tesco everybody involved in the process is extremely positive. Tesco is liking what they do. We like what they do. And the consumers using the six centers outside the Tesco stores are very in favor of the equipment.

We are discussing to expand the project with them. And based on this we are maintaining a pretty high level of investment, preparing for a positive decision. So we have not cut down any further the investment for the future development of the TRC.

When it comes to Japan we have installed 10 additional RVMs in the first quarter. The discussions with Sumitomo is developing positively. And we feel very positive with the further development of this type of equipment in a market like Japan.

When it comes to the financial justification of this type of solutions in environments where we don't have deposit. If you then first look at the U.K. retail model, it's basically the value of the material, together with subsidies being paid by the municipality, who pays for the investment in equipment and the operation of the volumes. Any kind of revenue coming from advertising, and any kind of effect coming from that, this has a positive effect for the retailer. Comes on top of this financial justification.

And based on the current volume in some of the centers with Tesco, this is currently a [zero] operation. The revenue from the local government, where Tesco is paid £30 per ton of glass, plus the commodity price for the aluminum PET, together with the subsidies is paying for the investment and the operation of the
centers.

In Japan the story is totally different, because the customer in Japan is the local municipality. And by using this type of equipment, they get some sort of increased value of the commodity collected. But the big savings in Japan is the fact that we are compacting the material to -- up to approximately 5 to 10% of original size. And the related logistical and transportation costs is then, for the municipality, in total reduced by 15 to 40%, taking into account the investment of these types of technology.

And then we are exploring another model in a third country in  Europe, where basically a private company is buying equipment for us -- from us. They get the space and electricity and -- from the local municipality. The material has some value. And they also then get advertising on the some sort of sectors of this equipment, like the street furniture.

And the value of all this and then the cost related to investment makes this a profitable business as itself. So it's a private company operating this as a standalone business, where the material and the advertising pays for the investment and operation of the centers.

And it's our ability to understand the various markets in the non-deposit environments, and then utilize this type of financial justifications, which will depend on the -- or which will make the level of the growth pattern, for TOMRA big scale into the future in the non-deposit environment, which is currently around 85% of the world opportunity.

We will not stop to some sort of work for deposit, and some sort of explore the deposit opportunities. But this is not either/or process, it's both. So we will do both.

If you then look into the future, maybe even more than into the rest of this year, it's basically five elements impacting our growth into the future. And all of these five elements are working in favor of  TOMRA, which is in the core -- our core businesses is recycling of household waste and packing.

And we have three technologies being recognition of material, sorting of material and compaction of material. The waste per capita is increasing, which is basically positive for all our business areas. The regulations impacting the society, the targets, the recycling targets, gets more and more ambitious. And that's also positive for all our business areas.

The commodity prices are increasing. I think the aluminum price, as of today, is around $26.50 per ton, which is extremely high. But maybe it's the new level of that type of commodity. PET prices is around $500 to $600 per ton, having no value four, five years ago. And this is also impacting our business areas, basically in the -- and particularly in the materials handling and in business models like the one we have with -- in TRC in the U.K. and Japan.

Manual processes becomes more and more expensive, because of the increase in salaries by employees. And by the increase in energy cost in the transportation, in the logistics positively impacting all our business

Page 42 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
areas, in particular TiTech, Orwak. And then there is also a trend towards more and more corporate social responsibility, which is then especially impacting our business where we have the retailers as big customers.

So all in all we are very pleased with first quarter, from a financial point of view. We are very pleased with the first quarter from a, some sort of creating momentum point of view. And in all the basic elements impacting our business long term is working in the right direction.

So I think I should conclude by saying, we are in the right business at the right moment, with the right products and people. And I think first quarter has proved that. So thank you.
Questions, if any.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have a question regarding the gross margins and the various synergies [inaudible]. And the [inaudible] margin where in the [inaudible] areas [inaudible]? And another question is expected OpEx level in Germany? [Inaudible question - microphone inaccessible]

AMUND SKARHOLT: I think the gross margin in the Collection Technology, previously RVM Technology, is basically more or less stable in the various markets. What's impacting the gross margin is the product mix from the various types of machines. And it's the mix from the various geographies.

We have a little smaller margin in the U.S. compared to  Europe. Of course, we have a smaller margin in the Germany operation compared to the Nordics. But in general, if you take all Germany, the margins are pretty more on the same levels as a year ago. Maybe a little improved because we have been able to do some improvement on the COGS related to the various operations and various actions. We have now taken on the large volumes.

When it comes to OpEx on Germany and the rest of the Collection Technology, we are extremely confident with the increase in OpEx. It's less than we anticipated some months ago. And the NOK10m in Germany over the first quarter will not increase any further into the quarters to come, if we are able to run the way we run in the first quarter.

You should, in that perspective, remember that some of the machines we are moving to the market in especially third and fourth quarter are a little more complex than the ones we moved in the first and second quarter. But that's -- you learn as you go through.
UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: [Inaudible question - microphone inaccessible]

AMUND SKARHOLT: We have decided to appeal the ruling from the European Commission, basically because we are in total disagreement on the ruling. We have decided not to pay the fine. What we will do from a book-keeping point of view, we will decide when we are filing the appeal. And the appeal we have to file before June 6. Whatever it takes from there on, probably a one to two-year some sort of process with the European Commission.
Okay. Thank you and have a nice afternoon.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

Page 43 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
CO   tomsys : Tomra Systems ASA
IN     i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines

NS   ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
RE   uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North
America | weurz : Western Europe
PUB Voxant, Inc.
AN   Document FNDW000020060503e24j000xd

Search Summary
Text                                commission and Euro* and tomra and fine* Date                                28/02/2006 to 29/04/2006
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                24
Timestamp                      3 April 2019 7:04 PM







































Page 44 of 44 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
