




Full Year 2005/06 ThyssenKrupp AG Earnings Analysts' and Investors' Meeting - Final ....................................... 2
DJ EU Reimposes EUR3.17M Cartel Fine On ThyssenKrupp ............................................................................... 22
EU Fines ThyssenKrupp EUR3.17M For Stainless Cartel ..................................................................................... 23
EU Fines ThyssenKrupp EUR3.17M For Stainless Cartel ..................................................................................... 24
EU Fines ThyssenKrupp EUR3.17M For Stainless Cartel ..................................................................................... 25
EU reimposes cartel fine on ThyssenKrupp ........................................................................................................... 26
Commission fines ThyssenKrupp Stainless €3.17m .............................................................................................. 27
EU Fines ThyssenKrupp EUR3.17M For Stainless Cartel ..................................................................................... 29
Business Brief: ThyssenKrupp AG ......................................................................................................................... 30
CARTELS : CARTEL FINE CATCHES UP WITH THYSSEN ................................................................................ 31
EU Commission reimposes cartel fine on TK Stainless ......................................................................................... 32
Contents ................................................................................................................................................................ 33 (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Commission imposes €3 168 000 fine on ThyssenKrupp Stainless AG ....................... 35









































Page 1 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.




HD   Full Year 2005/06 ThyssenKrupp AG Earnings  Analysts' and Investors' Meeting - Final
WC  16,160 words
PD   1 December 2006
SN   Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
SC   FNDW
LA    English
CY   © Voxant Inc. All rights reserved.

LP
GUNDOLF MORITZ, CORPORATE IR,  THYSSENKRUPP AG: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. A very warm welcome to ThyssenKrupp's Fiscal Year 2005/2006 Analysts and Investors Meeting, today here at [Valla Ruben] in Essen. I would also like to welcome internet and telephone listeners who are following the AV online transmission of today's meeting. My name is Gundolf Moritz.

This morning we published our results and discussed the details already with the media. All the relevant information is out and I'm sure you have already been through it in detail. We just posted all the charts which we will show you today on the internet. Before I walk you through the agenda of today's meeting, let me make a few housekeeping remarks, as usual.

TD
Since we do have a live AV stream and an open phone line, I would kindly ask you here in the room to use the microphones when asking questions during the Q&A session. Those of you following proceedings online should please address your questions via email to ir@thyssenkrupp.com and, I repeat, it's ir@ghyssenkrupp.com. And also for [those in the room], I just got the signal here please keep your cell phones and blackberries off.

Now to today's proceedings. Ekkehard Schulz, Chairman of the Executive Board of  ThyssenKrupp AG, will kick off the session with the fiscal year 2005/2006 overview, strategic remarks and the outlook for the Group.

Afterwards, Ulrich Middelmann, Vice Chairman of the Executive Board and CFO, recaps the fiscal year in more detail and will provide further information on  ThyssenKrupp's growth strategy in the context of our financial key performance indicators. Then we will be pleased to take your questions.

At the end of the meeting, at about 4pm, we would like to invite the physical attendants here in the room to join us for a drink and snacks just in the room after us or behind us. So it's now my pleasure to hand over to Ekkehard Schulz.

EKKEHARD SCHULZ, CEO,  THYSSENKRUPP AG: Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to welcome you here to ThyssenKrupp's Analysts and Investors Meeting for Fiscal Year 2005/2006. For ThyssenKrupp '05/'06 was an outstanding fiscal year, the most successful since the merger in 1999. Earnings from continuing operations before taxes reached EUR2.623b. This represents an improvement of
56%.

We pursued our track record of value generation. Our  ThyssenKrupp value added improved from EUR997m to EUR1.51b. This increased our ROCE from 14.4% to 17.9%. Demand for the Group's products and services continued to increase strongly. Order intake reached EUR50.8b and that's up by 16.7%. At EUR47.1b sales were 9.8% higher than the year before.

Earnings per share increased from EUR0.50 [sic - see presentation] to EUR3.24 which means EPS almost tripled. In response to the outstanding earnings in this meeting on November 30, 2006 the Supervisory Board endorsed the proposal of the Executive Board to recommend to the Annual General Meeting an increase in the dividend from EUR0.70 per share to EUR1 per share. Excluding the special dividend of EUR0.10 per share in fiscal year '04/'05 the dividend has, thus, increased by 43%.
Ladies and gentlemen, before I will move into strategy, let me briefly recap the highlight of fiscal year
'05/'06. We surpassed our own expectations from the beginning of fiscal year significantly. We are already
ahead of our EUR2.5b target for sustainable earnings before tax. The Steel segment performed the highest
value added in the Group, whereas, Technologies achieved a major improvement in TKVA figure.

Page 2 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
We have set the best possible basis for our growth strategy.  ThyssenKrupp today can be characterized by a strong ability to generate cash flows against the background of a very solid balance sheet structure. Our Group consists of a portfolio of well-positioned business units with top global market positions. We have a track record of five years of constant earnings growth. We accomplished the aforementioned achievement despite the ongoing restructuring efforts at Automotive. This clearly indicates that we still have further performance potential.

Ladies and gentlemen,  ThyssenKrupp has become a Delta EVA Story with constant value contribution above our target. My colleague, Ulrich Middelmann, will elaborate on the performance and future potential later in this presentation.

Ladies and gentlemen, the aforementioned facts and figures confirm  ThyssenKrupp's strategy. In the past the focus was on consolidation. Now we have moved up a gear and are pursuing a clear profitable growth path. With the merger of  Thyssen and Krupp business with sales of nearly EUR9b have been sold, and businesses with sales of nearly EUR8b acquired. The successes of the Group in recent years has been based partly on positive market developments, but only partly. The goals of our value enhancement program, ThyssenKrupp Best, are to improve the Group's performance, build on its strengths and remove any weakness.
For five years now the Program has been contributing to improving earnings. The reporting year alone
1,453 new projects were launched to make our Company even better. The program is more successful
than ever. At the end of September 2006  ThyssenKrupp Best comprised altogether 5,995 national and
international projects. Since the Program was first launched in 2001, more than 3,200 projects have
already been successfully completed.

Ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to strategy on chart six. For the next few years  ThyssenKrupp is to pursue a forward strategy with sustainable high earnings. All segments will contribute [through] the continued growth. In a first step sales will grow to EUR50b, 60% of which will be generated by the production of materials in capital goods. The remaining 40% will come from Services. All segments are expanding the service side of their businesses.

The Steel activities, and especially carbon and stainless, will account for sales of up to EUR19b. And capital goods we expect sales to reach EUR12b to EUR14b. And in Services, including elevator, the target is around EUR19b. The current high quality of earnings will continue to be a top priority.

In the second step we aim to generate sales of EUR55b to EUR60b. To do so, investment of up to EUR20b will be required. My colleague will shed more light on our investment strategy in his presentation later.

The rankings in the world steel industry are generally based on the basis of production figures. Tonnes of steel are counted without taking products and quality into account. In crude steel production we currently rank eleventh, with 16.5 million metric tonnes in 2005, as you can see in the chart which we just added to the presentation.

In flat carbon steel production, ThyssenKrupp Steel ranks seventh with 14.1 million metric tonnes. However, in terms of sales, ThyssenKrupp is the world's fifth largest steel producer with $19b turnover. The reason is clear; higher sales can be made with higher quality. Total world steel output is currently around 1.2 billion metric tonnes. Of this, around 700 million tonnes are long products and 500 million tonnes flat products. Of these 500 million tonnes of flat products, 50% are high quality products. We aim to achieve a share of 10% of these, around 25 million tonnes, medium and long term.

Our growth strategy in the Steel segment is focused on the markets of North America and  Europe. In the NAFTA region we are aiming for a share of at least 5% of the high quality flat products market. To achieve this goal quickly,  ThyssenKrupp signed an agreement with Mittal Steel in January 2006, under which Mittal Steel committed to sell the Canadian steel producer Dofasco to  ThyssenKrupp at a price of CAD68 per share in the event that it acquired Arcelor.

In its defense against Mittal, Arcelor had transferred Dofasco to the foundation under Dutch Law. The Boards of Mittal Steel Company and Arcelor requested the Foundation's Directors to dissolve the Foundation, but they refused.
Arcelor Mittal is looking into the consequences of this since this dissolution of the Foundation is a
pre-requisite for the sale of Dofasco.  ThyssenKrupp will exhaust every possibility to bring about the sale of
Dofasco to  ThyssenKrupp, as committed by Mittal Steel. We expect Arcelor-Mittal to do the same.

In parallel, the Dofasco  ThyssenKrupp has pressed ahead with the planning of a planned complex in the U.S.A. which could be built and used jointly by the Steel and Stainless segments. The centerpiece will be a hot strip mill, which will mainly process slabs from the new steel mill in Brazil. In addition, there will be cold rolling and hot dip galvanizing capacities for high quality carbon steel finished products.
Page 3 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
The search for a location is currently underway. The location must offer optimum logistics for slab supplies from Brazil and for the distribution of end products to North American customers.

In Europe we will support our outstanding market position with additional investments in the amount of EUR700m. In Duisburg EUR300m is being invested in a new replacement blast furnace to secure our crude steel bases. We are also investing a further EUR400m in Duisburg to remove bottlenecks and optimize the production flow.

Our new steel mill in Brazil supplies the 5 million tonnes of slabs needed to fill the orders of our demanding customers in North America and  Europe. The foundation stone for the new EUR3b mill was laid on September 29. Production is scheduled to start in early 2009. The mill will employ around 3,000 people and create a further 10,000 jobs at suppliers and service providers in this region. Offering optimized cost logistics and quality, the slabs from the Brazilian state of Rio de Janeiro will secure our market positions in Europe and the NAFTA region.

The Stainless segment too aims to expand its international position. Stainless involvement in the plant complex in the U.S.A., in addition to using the hot strip mill together with the Steel segment also comprises its own melt shop for stainless products as well as a cold rolling facility. The first phase this will be designed to produce 325,000 tonnes of cold rolled, and 100,000 of hot rolled [pickled] products.

Last, our Mexican stainless steel producer,  ThyssenKrupp Mexinox will be able to receive starting material directly from the U.S.A. in the future. This offers a clear logistical advantage over the current supply of material from our  European plant. As world market leader in stainless slab products and nickel alloys, Stainless has production capacities in Italy, with  ThyssenKrupp Acciai Speciali Terni, and in China with ShanghaiKruup Stainless, as well as the operations in Mexico.

Ladies and gentlemen, effective October 1, 2006 we merged the Automotive operations of  ThyssenKrupp with the Technologies segment in order to focus on our engineering expertise and strengthen our innovation capability.

Since the start of the current fiscal year,  ThyssenKrupp Technology has been divided through the business units Planned Technology, Marine Systems, Mechanical Components and Automotive Solutions. A major step in reducing our reliance on the big three was taken with the sale of the North American stamping plant operation.  ThyssenKrupp will continue to be a leading automotive supplier, and I can add at this moment that we closed the deal yesterday evening.

Following the acquisition of HDW in 2005 and the formation of a  European shipyard alliance, our market and technology leadership was further expanded by the acquisition of Atlas Elecktronik. The priorities for the coming years in the Plant Engineering business will be as service offensive and the establishment of service business in various regions of the world.

The strategy of our Elevator segment, besides expanding existing businesses, includes further strategic acquisitions both in the highly industrialized countries and in the world's new growth region. The segment strengthened its position in key  European markets last year, but it also grew successfully in strategic emerging markets.

One example is India. New installations and services are contributing equally to the growth in existing operations. An even higher network of branches close to customers is securing market presence. In addition, a global service strategy will ensure a higher level of service operations at all locations worldwide. The strategy sets high international standards for the work of our Service employees. This will allow us to offer our customers comprehensive after sales packages.

Our Services segment aims to continue its growth on the market for materials and industrial services. Acquisitions will support the expansions of the existing businesses. The expansion strategy focuses on the NAFTA region, Eastern  Europe and also South America and Asia. For example, the acquisition of a majority interest in the Industrial Services business of [RIP] reflects our expectations in South America. RIP is market leader in its sector and it's represented at all key industrial locations in Brazil.

The materials area of the segment is vigorously pursuing this Eastern  Europe strategy. In Asia it is increasingly setting up Joint Ventures with local partners.

Ladies and gentlemen before I will move into the outlook statement for the current fiscal year, please allow me some remarks with regard to the upcoming weeks. Our Annual General Meeting takes place on January 19. A key item on the Agenda will be our dividend proposal. Another item is the creation of authorized capital in an amount of EUR500m. That is around 38% of the current capital stock. This authorized capital will be available to the Executive Board for the purpose of a capital increase for a period of five years, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. Authorized capital is provided for in the

Page 4 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Articles of Association of almost all large German stock corporations. In view of the growth course which
ThyssenKrupp is successfully pursuing, this Resolution will support possible strategic measures.

The Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation has signaled that it intends to increase its shareholding in ThyssenKrupp AG to over 25% of the capital stock. In the interests of good corporate governance it is entitled to appropriate representation on the Supervisory Board of  ThyssenKrupp AG. The proposed Resolution on the right to nominate three Supervisory Board members reflects the shareholding targeted by the Foundation.

The representation of the main stockholders on the Supervisory Board of the Company is a significant contribution to governance of the Company in the interests of all shareholders. The corresponding amendment to the Articles of Association will be submitted to the shareholders for Resolution.

Our sustainable target for pre-tax earnings over the economic cycle is, as you know, EUR2.5b. Having achieved this target in 2005/2006, we are confident of exceeding it again in the current fiscal year, provided the world economy remains stable and energy prices stay within manageable limits.

Ladies and gentlemen, having said this, I would like to hand over to Ulrich Middelmann. Thank you very much.

ULRICH MIDDELMANN, VICE CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE BOARD AND CFO,  THYSSENKRUPP AG: Ladies and gentlemen, following the remarks by Ekkehard Schulz, let me join him in welcoming you to our Analysts and Investors Meeting. I would like also to welcome internet listeners who are following the online video transmission and those listening in by phone.

Before I start to provide you with more details regarding the outstanding results, as well as on financial targets and investment strategy, let me introduce myself briefly.

I'm the Vice Chairman of the Executive Board and took over CFO's responsibilities as of today. I'm pretty sure most of you are familiar with my name. In 1977 I joined Krupp Stahl and worked for several years in different departments as accounting, corporate development, merger and acquisitions. In 1992, I was appointed as a member of the Executive Board of Krupp Stahl responsible for controlling and mergers and acquisition. The merger of  ThyssenKrupp, the acquisition of [ISD], Mexinox and others are some highlights in my track record.

Finally, Krupp and  Thyssen merged to the  ThyssenKrupp company and also in that Board I was in the beginning responsible for controlling and merger and acquisition. End of October 2001, Ekkehard Schulz asked me to overtake the responsibility as the Chairman of our Steel segment, and I served this segment for four years and we both drove the results from 160 up to 1.4b EBT.

After that I moved back to my former responsibility as a controller and the merger and acquisition specialist, up to now, when I overtake the CFO's position and also, since October 2001, I was the Deputy Chairman.

So far, ladies and gentlemen let me take the opportunity right here to thank my colleague, Stefan Kirsten, for the excellent job he has done over the last couple of years. His work is dealing with the financial markets was characterized by openness, transparency, continuity and by driving the Group's value orientation in an excellent way. Ladies and gentlemen those attributes will not be forgotten in the future, neither with regard with  ThyssenKrupp in general, nor to my person in particular.

I have dedicated myself to continuing that open and transparent dialogue and, believe me throughout my entire personal and business life, I have built up a track record or delivering on my promises.

But back to business. Ekkehard Schulz has already mentioned the most important key figures. Let me now highlight and discuss the material aspects of fiscal year 2005/'06 from a financial point of view.

I will focus on the financials, major exceptional items within the Group and certain segments, as well as the drivers of our result. Furthermore, I will provide a better understanding or, let's say, enable you to get a better grip on  ThyssenKrupp's investment strategy to achieve our financial targets. Before I do so, let me sum up briefly the highlights of the fiscal year '05/'06.

It was indicated already by the strong three preceding quarters that fiscal year '05/'06 could be the strongest in the young history of the  ThyssenKrupp AG. Ladies and gentlemen, this indication has turned into reality, as you experienced this morning. I believe the pure facts speak for themselves.

A leap in EBT of 56% to EUR2.6b [sic - see slides]; excluding major non-recurring items, there would have been an increase of EUR2.2b or a plus of two third compared to fiscal year '04/'05. A  ThyssenKrupp value added of EUR1.5b, which means an increase of more than EUR500m compared with the previous year.


Page 5 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Net financial receivables expanded to EUR750m, an improvement of more than [EUR920m] despite the recently executed share buyback program.

The aforementioned numbers are the result of the excellent performance in almost all segments. Only Automotive failed to contribute because of the restructuring charges it has to bear. The main contribution, nevertheless, again came from the Steel segment. The Services, Stainless and Technology segments showed impressive improvements and there remains even more room for improvement.

The list of interruptions and one-offs in the course of fiscal year '05/'06 indicates that  ThyssenKrupp has not yet tapped its full potential. Just to mention, several disruptions at HTM which lead to a shortage in slab supply; the fire at the stainless cold rolling mill in Krefeld in late June 2006; the temporary breakdown in
one [upsetting] press in one of the hot rolling mills in Duisburg; the aforementioned major restructuring efforts in Automotive.

Let's turn to page four. Ladies and gentlemen, after it became clear that even those mid-term targets announced in May would be not challenging and the Management became more confident that there is much more power in the Company,  ThyssenKrupp released a new mid-term target of EUR2.5b in September this year.

Chart four clearly demonstrates that  ThyssenKrupp has done its homework. Within a time period of four years, the EBT number increased by a factor of 6.6, which translates into a compound annual growth rate of 60%. How did the other value indicators change? Let's have a look at chart five?
As highlighted in that chart,  ThyssenKrupp is a clear Delta EVA Story. Let's look at the development. In
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2002 and end of September 2003, the  ThyssenKrupp Group failed to
create value. But already at that time ThyssenKrupp was implementing different measures to get back on
track. From that time onwards, ThyssenKrupp showed a continued improvement in TK value added and
ROCE. Fiscal year '05/'06 was a year in which ThyssenKrupp surpassed the new mid-term ROCE target
of 16% by nearly 2 percentage points, and created value of more than EUR1.5b, and this is not yet the end
of the road, ladies and gentlemen.

Chart six shows what we achieved bottom line. After deducting taxes of EUR990m, which translates into a tax rate of 35%, net income was raised to EUR1.7b. By the way, next year the tax rate we expect to be at slightly below 40% again, excluding one-offs. Earnings per share piled up to EUR3.24 per share. Both figures more than tripled and, beside the first quarter result,  ThyssenKrupp achieved an improvement compared to the previous year's result in each and every quarter.

Even more impressive is the fact that except for the first quarter '05/'06 earnings per share reached, or surpassed, the whole previous year's level in every quarter. At the end it added up to EUR3.24 per share.

What does that mean for our dividend payment? Ladies and gentlemen we are continuing with our dividend policy. The policy is to pay an appropriate dividend based on the Group's sustainable earnings. The decision as to the amount of the dividend takes into account the following. A, the objective of increasing
our equity or decreasing our debt. B, value enhancing expansion projects and C, the aim of dividend continuity.

Against this background the Board and the Executive Management Team will propose to the Annual General Meeting the payment of an ordinary dividend of EUR1 per share for fiscal year '05/'06; an increase of 43% compared to last year's dividend payment from the operating performance. This dividend translates into a payout ratio of 30% or a current dividend deal of approximately 3.8%.

Ladies and gentlemen, how did sales and order intake develop over the last years? Chart eight in your handout. With sales of more than EUR47b  ThyssenKrupp reported an increase of about 10% against the excellent previous year's number. Even more impressive is the jump in order intake, with EUR50.8b, an improvement of 17% was reached compared to last year. Order intake overshooting sales gives you an impression that  ThyssenKrupp already established a good basis for the current fiscal year 2006/'07.

Let's now turn to the other key figures on chart nine. EBITDA and EBIT were correspondingly higher. EBITDA was up 23% at EUR4.7b. Due to only slightly increased depreciation and amortization levels, EBIT increased by around 35% compared to the previous year. This clearly indicates, ladies and gentlemen, that profits resulted, not only as a consequence of a long term capital build up, but more from operational efficiency enhancements.

A few [orders] about cash flow from operating activities. Operating cash flow jumped 47% against last year's figure and reached a level of EUR3.5b. Keeping the financial basis and flexibility for further focusing and expanding of our core business areas is one of  ThyssenKrupp's main targets. A higher operating cash flow is always the key to support those targets.

Page 6 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Capital expenditures, by which we mean investment in property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets investments were up 9% to approximately EUR2.1b. Take that slightly higher level already as a sign of the more expensive orientation of  ThyssenKrupp over the next couple of years. Some EUR30m were already spent in '05/'06 for the Brazilian Steel project. About EUR1.6b was invested in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. EUR476m was spent to financial assets.

Financial flexibility brings me to the next financials liability position in chart 10. With the net financial liabilities of EUR177m,  ThyssenKrupp was already virtually net debt free in September '05. Over the course of the last fiscal year, the position was further reduced due to the strong cash flow from operating activities and proceeds from disposals. Beside investments in financing activities, and investment in PPE, dividends and the expenditures for the share buyback program were offsetting items.

However, ThyssenKrupp is now at the point of having approximately EUR750m as net cash which equals a gearing of -8.4%. This amount together with available credit lines of EUR4.3b is a sound basis for our growth projects. The aforementioned net cash position is a result of consistent financial discipline and debt reduction to put  ThyssenKrupp on a firm financial footing.

Chart 11 illustrates the amazing track record in building that solid financial basis. Starting with net debt of EUR4.7b we are talking about a swing factor of EUR5.5b only within four years. If we include pension -- pensions and similar obligations of EUR8b in the calculations, the gearing ratio of September 30, '06 was
82%.

Ladies and gentlemen, the objective on concentrating on value and cash flow figures is to come to a balanced and powerful business portfolio, as shown on page 12.  ThyssenKrupp screens each and every company in the Group for its contribution regarding free cash flow generation and TK value added. Without going into detail the intention is to place the businesses in the third quadrant and the systematic reduction of businesses in quadrant one and four. The goal must be to create and not to destroy value.

Beside Automotive, all business could be placed in the target area as you can easily see in this chart. To illustrate where we come from, let's have a brief look at 2004 and 2005. A year ago the Automotive and Technologies segment were clear value destroyers and even Stainless was almost borderline. That situation improved significantly in fiscal year '05/'06.

Most of the business showed improvements, especially, in value creation and positive Delta EVAs. Only Automotive underperformed due to a difficult market environment and substantial restructuring charges. Of course, Steel will move from the upper right corner to the left in the coming years, as long as the segment creates value, and I am confident it will. It will make its contribution to a strengthened Company.

Steel is  ThyssenKrupp's main growth path and temporarily cash consumption is necessary to build up a powerful driving force. It is all the more important to have segments which provide cash to finance that strategy. Before I go into the segments one by one, let me briefly recapitulate the first part of my presentation.

ThyssenKrupp is the Delta EVA Story, best proved by the steady growing ability to generate profit and value. The focus on value creation gives  ThyssenKrupp the financial base, flexibility and headroom for future growth projects. And, not least, I should mention the well balanced and experienced Management Team which has already demonstrated that it could master the challenges, and more, it could turn those challenges into success stories.

Additionally, a dividend policy which is characterized by the criteria stability, but also enough flexibility to support the future profitable growth path. It is not thinking in relative payout ratios, but provides flexibility to a Company. It is more thinking in total return which provides the best fit for all our stakeholders. This
combination forms an ideal platform and the best preconditions for  ThyssenKrupp's future growth strategy.

Ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to the individual segments starting with an overview of the Group's structure as it was until the end of fiscal year '05/'06.  ThyssenKrupp changed the organizational structure on October 1, '06 as a consequence of the measures taken in Automotive over the course of the year, which eventually led to its termination as an independent segment. I will come back to that point later.

Maybe you have noticed that the Elevator segment moved closer to the Service segment, not only distance-wise on that chart. Because of the character of both businesses, the Service component is a stabilizing factor of their profitability, hence, the service idea builds an ideal tie. To demonstrate that joint basis, among other things, Mr. Eichler, the Head of the Service segment, was appointed Executive Board Chairman of ThyssenKrupp Elevator, too.

What happened in the areas Steel, Capital Goods and Services in the course of the last fiscal year? I just want to mention the material aspects, more detailed information you can find on chart 17 to 29, which are more or less self-explaining. Let's start with Steel on page 17 and 18 in your handout.
Page 7 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Thanks to the positive market environment the Steel segment improved it's results significantly. The favorable international market environment was not only characterized by higher volume but, more importantly, by higher prices. In Western  Europe the increased level of production met both [cyclically] higher steel demand, as well as a higher consumption induced by restocking. Higher demand and disruptions in the production process even caused tight supply to some of our customers, and ThyssenKrupp often could not meet additional volumes requested by clients. This [latter] and higher price attracted increased imports from countries outside the EU from spring onwards. What looks like a worrying message has not led to disruptions in the overall market situation in  Europe. Therefore, and because of higher costs from the raw material side, price increases for quarterly and spot contracts were fully accepted by our customers.

Steel was again the highest value contributor in the Group with EUR930m; an increase of more than 50%. Likewise, EBT and operating cash flow came out better, too. Despite the aforementioned one-offs, and that is impressive enough, with an ROCE of 25%,  ThyssenKrupp Steel clearly beat even it's new target figure of 17.5 ROCE. There's still a lot of potential in Steel, ladies and gentlemen. It's always a matter of differentiation and costs. And with regard to  ThyssenKrupp Steel, we are not talking about commodity grades. Hence,  ThyssenKrupp announced its plan to build a low cost slab base in Brazil and clearly addressed how to serve the North American market.

Let's move to the Stainless segment. Fiscal year '05/'06 started anything but positively. The first quarter was one of the toughest quarters ever in the history of stainless steel, as a consequence of a less disciplined market, retained demand and rising costs for energy and transportation. At that time we saw base prices even below EUR1,000 per tonne. By contrast, in September this year,  ThyssenKrupp Stainless book based prices of EUR1,600 per tonne and even higher base prices have been booked for February and March '07.

Ladies and gentlemen, what caused such a dramatic change in stainless steel? First, service and trading centers speculated even lower prices at extremely low stock levels, which is dangerous, to be honest. Second, a cyclical upswing led to a surge in demand for almost all business areas. Third, nickel prices went up dramatically and reached all time highs. Fourth, supply shortages like the closure of Otokumpu's Sheffield plant, or temporary disruptions in the production process. Here, I would just like to mention the fire in our Krefeld plant caused concern about continuing a satisfactory supply of customers.

Stainless was able to report EUR423m in EBT for the full fiscal year. That is about 50% above the level of fiscal year '04/'05. The strongest momentum came from the nickel alloys business. Production shortfalls at the Nirosta plant in Krefeld were counterbalanced by a reallocation of the volumes in question to other locations, such as AST in Italy or STS in China. As with the carbon steel market the higher prices and, to some extent, tight material supply were responsible for a higher level of imports in the European market. Sounds terrifying but these additional volumes will be absorbed by the robust market in Europe. Of course, inventory levels increased over the year but at the momentum they are still at normal levels.

One could ask whether the situation in Stainless will hold over fiscal year '06/'07. Such a question is always hard to tackle. Let's put it this way. Due to strong order intake and even a freeze in orders for spot inquiries, I expect a continued favorable development, at least for the first half of fiscal year '06/'07.

Ladies and gentlemen, let me now draw your attention to Automotive. As already indicated quite early in the process, the focus in fiscal year '05/'06 was more on restructuring and taking measures to bring the business back to profitability. What does it mean in detail and how did  ThyssenKrupp tackle the issue? First, a comprehensive restructuring and disposal program was launched. Second, realignment of the Automotive activities and integration in the Technologies segment.

Let's start with the restructuring and disposal program. At the beginning of the last fiscal year ThyssenKrupp stated that businesses in Body Chassis North America, of about EUR1.5b in sales, had been identified that were mainly responsible for the poor performance in the Automotive business. As a consequence, a massive restructuring program was announced. In the course of that restructuring program, ThyssenKrupp sold ThyssenKrupp Stahl company, an aluminum casting business, ThyssenKrupp Budd Plastics division, a producer of sheet molding compounds, Body and Chassis North America activities and some other smaller businesses.

Restructuring and impairment charges of approximately EUR339m were booked. You may have in mind a number of around EUR200m, which Stefan mentioned in May. That's right, but it was not related to the North American -- not only related to the North American business. Additionally, around EUR100m were booked for European activities. Especially the situation in the body and [wide] equipment and toolmaking sector in Germany has worsened, which is the bread and butter business of [Drout Snothelfe].




Page 8 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
On the other side the segment had approximately $35m -- EUR35m proceeds from disposals. That means the clean EBT number would have been EUR130m, just slightly below last year's level on a comparable basis, if you have in mind the EUR28m impairment charge in '04/'05.

A few words about the realignment of the business. The reasons are the well-known restructuring requirements of the Body and Chassis business, and to put a stronger focus on the Components business. I don't want to make a secret of the fact that  ThyssenKrupp value added [a mean of] EUR331m was
another reason. Therefore, we decided to combine the Automotive and Technology segments effective first of October this year. Under the roof of Technologies the remaining business will be further screened for operational performance and I cannot exclude further restructuring charges also in the current fiscal year. To provide transparency about the progress in the restructuring process,  ThyssenKrupp will continue to report Automotive numbers separately throughout the near future on a pro forma basis.

Now to Technologies. At Technologies the situation has further improved. The segment, as an international high technology oriented mechanical and plant technology provider, profited particularly from two aspects
in the last fiscal year; lively demand in mechanical engineering and plant construction and a revised segment portfolio showing the real potential and strength of that segment for the first time. With orders in hand of EUR10.7b, around 75% of the next fiscal year's, and a reasonable amount of the year's after business is already secured. EBT was significantly raised to EUR357m as a result of the absence of substantial non-recurring expenses of some EUR150m last year, but also due to the favorable market environment in all business units. This earnings development is also reflected in EUR360m TK value added in this fiscal year.

Let me now draw your attention on the organizational changes. As I mentioned earlier, effective first of November the remaining activities of the former Automotive segment have been integrated into the Technologies segment. Chart 25 visualizes the new organizational structure and the personal responsibility.

The integration of the former Automotive segment in Technologies reflects the aim of the Group to focus on sustainable and profitable businesses within the Automotive activities. Therefore, the inclusion is just the systematic continuation of the announced strategy. The integration of these two mostly technological and component-driven businesses provides a lot of advantages. On the one hand there will be a strengthening of the market position in the components business and bundling of know-how. On the other side it's the Board's believe that this is the right  decision to restructure and realign the business to bring it back on track.

Let's now turn to how Elevator operated in the last fiscal year on page 26 and 27. Efficiency enhancement measures, a high utilization rate in the production plants and, as in The Americas business unit, a systematic extension of the Services business were the key to counterbalancing increasing pricing pressure in Europe and Asia Pacific. The latter business unit even reported a loss, which is attributable to the fact that the South Korean business, Dongyang Elevators, was affected by a major restructuring program. Here a double digit  euro amount for restructuring charges has been booked.

What can be expected from Elevator in the current fiscal year? Existing trends suggest a continuing positive development with regard to sales and order intake. As in the past, the business will grow
selectively and because of the absence of big deals for the time being, Elevator will concentrate on smaller acquisitions, mainly in the Services sector.

Last but not least, the segment Services. Let me refer to page 28 and 29.  ThyssenKrupp Services, a material and processing services provider for the production and manufacturing sector, had a record year. Born by the distinct growth in the raw and basic material sectors, the results were boosted to new highs. EBT developed disproportionately high compared to order intake and sales. This can be seen as an indicator that, besides operational environment, the absence of since disposed of loss-making parts of the Service segment had a positive impact.

Some of the business areas of the Materials Services activities were temporarily characterized by an overhang in demand with positive implications for prices. Here I have to emphasize the non-ferrous metals in particular. EBT was raised to EUR482m or 85% above the previous year's level. The ThyssenKrupp value added quintupled. Besides growth by acquisitions in the last fiscal year, ThyssenKrupp continued its organic growth drive by opening Eastern  Europe's biggest warehousing and service center in Dabrowa Gornicza, Poland. With as many of three companies of the corporate segments, Services, Stainless and Steel all accommodated within the complex, synergies are in abundance. By the way, that Service center will be the principle item at the  ThyssenKrupp Field Day next March.

Some may argue that the achieved level in earnings is not sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, let's put it in this way, a temporarily lower price level on raw materials market could have a slightly negative impact on


Page 9 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
sales and earnings. Nevertheless, a run rate of approximately EUR100m in EBT per quarter should be achievable.

As indicated earlier, I would also like to add a little more color to the financial strategy. As you can see on chart 30, ThyssenKrupp breaks down the Group's targets to each and every segment, and even to every business unit and every strategic entity. I do not want to go through the details, but more to draw your attention that every segment has to contribute to the Group's total success. With all that financial power what does ThyssenKrupp intend to do with its generated cash?

The major focus of  ThyssenKrupp's growth strategy will be on Steel, as shown in the pie chart on the left. For the Group in total we talk about investments of approximately EUR17b to EUR20b over a period of five years, thereof, EUR4b for pure maintenance. More than half of the amount is linked to the American markets. That is a clear sign of even greater internationalization in the future. All in all, we are talking about CapEx spending between EUR3.5b and EUR4b a year. Compared to last fiscal year, this is an increase of more than 80% per year.

How does that affect  ThyssenKrupp's cash flows? Chart 32 provides you an overview. This projection, ladies and gentlemen, is a major step forward in communication to the financial market. Nevertheless, please allow us a necessary level of opaqueness. Assume a relatively stable operating cash flow, including proceeds from disposals up to '08/'09, you see that due to planned investments in PPE and financial investments,  ThyssenKrupp anticipates a quite negative free cash flow in the current fiscal year. That negative amount is primarily a result of the Dofasco acquisition. But the situation will probably turn around
in '07/'08 due to the additional cash flow generation of Dofasco, as well as increasing investing cash flows.

Ladies and gentlemen, the situation described is not unusual for a company looking for growth. Much more important is that  ThyssenKrupp already expects to generate positive free cash flows from '08/'09 onwards. That means that the expansion proceeds process will be financed almost completely out of the operating cash flow.

Now that I have explained the segment and regional specific CapEx, let's take a closer look at the capital spending for strategic projects on chart 33. Out of the EUR17b to EUR20b CapEx, spending EUR11b to EUR12b are intended for investment in long-term assets. Out of the investments in long-term assets, EUR4b are for maintenance and EUR7b to EUR8b for growth. The right side of the chart provides you with the most important projects relating to investments in long-term assets.

First, the 5m metric tonne plant in Brazil costing EUR3b. Second, the necessary capacity expansion of our hot roll mill and other equipment units in Germany to process the additional slabs from Brazil, calculated at around EUR400m. Third,  ThyssenKrupp Services growth strategy which comprises another EUR400m. The expansion in the Services segment is mainly directed to Eastern  Europe, but also to North America and Asia. The bulk of the financial investments of EUR6b to EUR8b is directed to the acquisition of Dofasco. The  decision about the sale of Dofasco has to be finalized until January 28, [2006]. I am sure that here will be created a well balanced split between organic and external growth.

The next chart provides you with some details about the projects, as well as an alternative approach for addressing the North American market. Since most of you are already familiar with these options, I will move directly to chart 35.

Investment plans are strictly aligned with a commitment to appropriate profitability and value growth, as well as to continue with our financial discipline. For financing for these projects,  ThyssenKrupp has a high degree of flexibility due to cash on the balance sheet of EUR4.4b, available credit lines of approximately EUR4.3b, Treasury shares as acquisition currency and a proposed authorized capital of EUR500m, an estimated operating cash flow of around EUR19b over the next five years and continuous review of current business portfolio. That builds a solid basis for all growth initiatives. Nevertheless, and this is the underlying principle of our actions, our investment grade is the prerequisite with regard to all future investments. I'm responsible for insuring that the Company invests in projects which are value enhancing and not
destroying, and I'm not afraid to stop investments which do not meet our internal criteria.

That brings me to the end of my financial presentation. But before I take your questions, I would like to sum up briefly our performance in fiscal year '05/'06 and give you the CFO's perspective on the numbers and events. Ladies and gentlemen,  ThyssenKrupp is stronger than ever before. We already surpassed our
new EBT target in the last fiscal year and aim to exceed EUR2.5b again in the current fiscal year. The proposed dividend allows shareholders to participate in the outstanding results and provides enough flexibility for value creating business expansion.

Almost all businesses are operating at full steam and showed excellent operational performances despite several one-offs in the production process. The restructuring was pushed further and we are committed to continuing this process. We believe that the integration of Automotive into the Technologies segment will

Page 10 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
provide additional support.  ThyssenKrupp has reached the level of financial flexibility to take the new growth tasks with the investment grade rating as the basis and all growth projects are on track.

Ladies and gentlemen, an EBT of EUR2.6b and a  ThyssenKrupp value added of EUR1.5b is not yet the end of the road. With EUR17b to EUR20b CapEx spending within the next five years,  ThyssenKrupp is setting the course for even more. Thank you for your attention. We are now ready to ask -- to answer your questions. Thank you.

GUNDOLF MORITZ: Okay, ladies and gentlemen, we are now ready to open the floor for questions. And please, be reminded to use the microphones and please also state your name and company's name so that everyone in the room, as well as outside can hear who's speaking. The first question comes Michael Shillaker.

MICHAEL SHILLAKER, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yeah, hi. It's Mike Shillaker with Credit Suisse. I've got a number of questions for you, if I may. First of all, the improvement in profitability in '06 versus '05, clearly we've had a very strong cycle in '06 in Steel and also the other businesses. Can you tell us, can you give us a sense of what you think the improvement of profitability was in a split between structural improvement and pure cyclical improvement?

And, given that you've gone slightly more bullish on your outlook in terms of guidance since September, can you also tell us what's driving that optimism given the fact that there's a good chance 2007 is going to end up as a de-stocking year, which will arguably affect the Steel, Stainless and the Services business?

My second question on Technologies, obviously, you had phenomenal order books in the fourth quarter. I wonder if you could just elaborate a little bit on the sub-segments within Technologies that were seeing those orders, how sustainable you think those -- that level of order books is going forward, and also give us a little bit of sense of the time lag in generating profitability versus orders in that business.

My third question is, if I read this rightly, you've targeted between 6 to 8b for acquisitions going forward, and assuming that you may not still get Dofasco, have you got a plan B and a plan C in terms of the spending, in terms of acquisitions going forward?

And finally, my final question is in reconciling your CapEx program over the next five years you've shown us a chart where you're assuming stable cash flows over the next five years. Can you just give us a little sense of what you're thinking in the long-term cycle and what you're seeing in terms of -- what is your view of the long-term cycle that  ThyssenKrupp is now operating in? Thank you.

EKKEHARD SCHULZ:  Fine, I'll start with the more strategical questions and the operations questions will be taken by Ulrich Middelmann. Concerning Dofasco, plan B or C, if we cannot get Dofasco for the time being we are quite optimistic that we have a very good chance to get Dofasco. Because of the clear signal for us that the  decision of DOJ yesterday to extend the period of another two months for Mittal to demonstrate and prove best efforts to sell Dofasco is a clear signal to us that the DOJ sticks to their position. First priority to solve anti-trust problems in the NAFTA region [Arcelor] Mittal is to sell Dofasco. And only if that is not possible, or will not be possible, then the DOJ deems to be ready to accept alternatives [of divestment]. So we take this DOJ  decision from yesterday as a clear signal that we have a very good chance to get Dofasco because all we know from our expert is that the Dutch Stichting can be dissolved. It's possible to dissolve the Stichting and therefore now we will try to convince Arcelor Mittal to put pressure on the Board of Stichting to do so, and make clear the way in order for us to buy Dofasco.

So but, of course, if we cannot get Dofasco, so you have a clear strategy plan B, B or C, or B plus C that's clear. Of course, one alternative you know. We have this published this alternative that's greenfield in the U.S.A., a Greenfield -- to invest in the Greenfield plan in the U.S.A., South East of the U.S.A., together with carbon steel and stainless, starting with the hot strip mill with a capacity of 5m tonnes supplied with slabs from Brazil. And in front of the hot strip mill and [inaudible] furnace including [AOD] converter for the production of stainless steel of roughly 1m tonnes. So that is, of course, plan B.

And, of course, we are investigating right now alternatives in this market as far as acquisitions are concerned. But I'm sure you will understand that I cannot disclose what we have in mind as far as plan C is concerned. So that's the Dofasco question.

So as far as the long-term cycle is concerned, your [fourth] question, we are quite optimistic that with our portfolio, which is in the direction of high quality products, product mix in all segments, in all five segments, and with a high percentage of Service in the future, at least 40% of total sales will come from Service oriented businesses. That will stabilize our profitability and, therefore, we are quite optimistic that long term, or medium or long term that for us it means fiscal year of '09, '10, or [latest] one year later, we can reach
this long term goal of EUR55b to EUR60b sales. Although, in a relation 60% product or production oriented businesses, 40% service oriented business that we have a very good, a very balanced product mix in order

Page 11 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
to secure our ambitious profitability. Which, of course, must be above that what we have published right now with EUR3.5b over the cycle. So, and now you come to the questions one and two?

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Yes, I would like to answer some areas you mentioned. First, some -- thinking about the improvement of profitability then some words to Technologies and stability in cash flows and how we take this in the future.

First, if we analyze the result of last fiscal year, the EUR2.6b, we have to keep in mind that there were some extraordinary items, some special depreciations and impairments of more than 300, so around about
338 as a minus and a special plus of 150 for Dofasco. So the real result is by far more than 2.6 and if you have in mind also the one-offs, where we lost a lot of tonnages, the fire we had, then in a normalized situation the result, the EBT, would have been closer to EUR3b than 2.6b, so there is a significant internal potential.

Then, when you look to the quarters, we started very low in Stainless, as I mentioned. We had nearly zero profit in the first quarter and now after the reduction of capacity of Otokumpu in an amount of roughly
300,000 tonnes and, here, our let's say reduction of our capacity in cold rolled, it's 300,000 tonnes. And we will have rebuilt this end of next year and the reduction of hot capacity we will have reestablished end of April. So a significant shortage in supply will be there over the year. The potential in Stainless is by far higher than in the last year.
In Technologies, we have a huge order income mainly in Marine so -- and nearly the year in Technologies
is well planned and we have a quite secure view what will happen over the next five months. So, we see an
appropriate -- and also, you know we are in the middle of the first quarter of the new fiscal year, and we
have some impression that we might exceed our mid-term target, and there are a lot of ideas and a lot of
events which can support this.

In Technologies the biggest challenge they have is to bring their management impact also to the Automotive, where we have a clear focus also to improve the component area, the camshafts, the crankshafts and steering columns. And to reduce a little bit more our responsibility as we did in the United States in the body chassis area, which is in principle weaker than the other businesses because they are in the middle between these two power blocks. The Steel prices on the one side via the huge and heavyweights on the Steel side and, the other side, the pressure of OAM's, which try to return or improve their profitability by pulling down their purchase prices. In the United States it was by far evident because there the big three, also fairly poor profit-wise and bring back far more pressure to this. Therefore, we
started this process in the United States, but we consider seriously what's appropriate to do here in  Europe.

When you mentioned that our assumption for the investment plan for the next couple of years is stable cash flow development we, of course, as serious businessmen have a plan B and plan C in mind. A lot of points I already mentioned but, at any time we are prepared to postpone certain investment programs, if we have a certain reduction in profitability. We made huge sensitivity programs for every consideration and we also have a portfolio where there are a lot of businesses which are, perhaps, a little bit more faraway from our real core-core business, as we call it internally, and can have quick disposals, if necessary. So, we feel quite comfortable and for the moment we work on this assumption, because we do not see a significant volatility in our businesses where we are in the premium segment in Steel and the high technology
segment in the other areas.

MICHAEL SHILLAKER: Okay, if I could just -- a very brief follow up. The first question I guess I didn't actually ask the right question. I suppose the point is if you don't get Dofasco there's still, in your CapEx plan, a significant spare space for further acquisitions?
ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Yes.
MICHAEL SHILLAKER: Are you looking primarily at acquisitions in the steel business? ULRICH MIDDELMANN: I forgot to --
EKKEHARD SCHULZ: Sorry -- mic on, mic on.

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: I forgot to mention the 6 to 8b acquisitions. It's not only Dofasco, it's more or less half is Dofasco. Then a lot of ideas in Services where we continuously acquire firms of a -- companies of a size of 100, 200, 300m turnover and also in businesses like large diameter bearings or [back hole] companies, so there is a wide spread of ideas to move forward in different segments.

MICHAEL SHILLAKER: And finally, just to go back to the fourth question. It's a very tough question, I know, but do you have a sense of how much your profitability improvement from 1.6 to, say, call it 3 pre-tax was driven by the cycle versus driven by structural improvement?

Page 12 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
ULRICH MIDDELMANN: I think the increase in profitability over the last years in general and also in the last period in special is mainly driven by measures. We have this TK Best program where we, as Ekkehard Schulz mentioned, execute a tremendous amount of projects all over all segments so our approach, our profitability increase is driven by measures.

That's also the principle idea of value management, to identify measures in all the different ways to improve the businesses and this is a never ending story. We have to learn even on that level of 2.6, we have hundreds of working groups which identify in the process, in the products, in the relation to clients, in the relation to competitors, a lot of ideas to improve.

Concerning the cycle, well Steel prices are fairly high but I have no doubt that we will have a significant increase step-by-step because we also get pressure from the back via the raw material prices so this will be also in the long-term future, continuous progress.

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: Mr. Shillaker, may I add a few comments? To demonstrate how much our portfolio and our structure, our restructuring has improved the profitability, four years ago we published we had on EBT of roughly EUR700m. EUR700m EBT was the difference between EUR1.5b profits of very good activities and EUR800m so-called underperformers and loss-makers. And so we restructured by divestment and restructuring turnaround programs, the underperformance and loss-makers have improved the
situation of the good performers. So that was one element of the dramatic improvement of our profitability.

So we are not 100% through the so-called loss-makers and underperformances but I would say we have turned around -- we sold the turnaround roughly 80 or 85% of those and have another 50% of those in front of us to restructure or divest it. And then that gives us stability and the stable basis from there -- from that basis on to growth profitability progress.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Okay. The next question comes from Johan Rode, please.

JOHAN RODE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good day, gentlemen. Johan Rode from Deutsche Bank. Just three questions from me. Firstly, the negotiations on the carbon flat Steel side, can you give us an indication of how that's going? I believe it's around 60% of your sales on the flat carbon side, that's annual and multi-annual. Can you give us also a split on the breakdown of contracts to be negotiated by the end of this year?

Second question on the Elevator side, you've given us guidance of, in your annual report, of significant increase in your order levels. Can you perhaps explain whether that is coming into new installations or more into the Services side of the business?

And then a final question in terms of CapEx. You're planning EUR3b of CapEx for the Brazilian plant. Can you give us an indication of what  euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate that projection is based on in  euros? And secondly also, your plans in terms of hedging for that investment in Brazil.
ULRICH MIDDELMANN: As far as the carbon steel contracts are concerned, that's correct. The figure,
60%, are annual contracts or even more than 60%. Though, we have accomplished our contracts with the
Automotive with five OAM's already with significant improvements of the prices compared to last year. So
we are quite optimistic that we will have a very good fiscal year '06/'07 as far as carbon steel is concerned,
and a very good one for Stainless. We expect a better Stainless Steel year in '06/'07 than last year.

So Elevator, what was the question of Elevator? To increase our capital investment in service and new installations. The percentage is roughly -- of total sales is 50% service and 50% is new installations.

JOHAN RODE: Can I just confirm, is that the new orders split as well, so the new orders coming in is mostly split along that line as well?

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: Excuse me, acoustics is extremely bad so -- it's worse than this morning. I have no idea why but it's difficult to understand. Could you maybe speak a little louder?

JOHAN RODE: Can I just find out whether the new orders that are coming in next year, is that going to be in the same split of 50% new services versus installations?
EKKEHARD SCHULZ: Yes. I would say, yes.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Could you also please repeat the third question?

JOHAN RODE: Yes. Just in terms of your investment in Brazil, you mentioned the target of EUR3b of CapEx, and I just wanted to confirm what your U.S. dollar /euro exchange rate is, used in this projection, and whether you do intend to hedge any of your CapEx at exchange rates going forward.


Page 13 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
ULRICH MIDDELMANN: It's extremely difficult to answer because some pieces we buy in dollars and, as this plant is only working for the outside export, we also have all our business in dollars. Others we buy in Brazil locally. This is a limited amount which we, of course, hedge on a certain basis. Third, you have to take into account that we finance -- the whole volume we need in Brazil, we finance in equity and not in debts, which is an experience which we made as a player since 100 years in Brazil that, in a high inflation area, we more prefer to finance in equity than in debt.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Okay, next question. Rochus Brauneiser, please.

ROCHUS BRAUNEISER, ANALYST, KEPLER EQUITIES: A couple of questions, if I may. First of all, coming back to the Elevator division, could you become a little bit more specific on the situation in Korea? The losses or the restructuring charges you are facing there and what is the outlook for that business in the current fiscal year?

Secondly, if I look at your order trend, it is losing, obviously, some momentum since the first quarter of '06. What is your top line outlook for that business in the current fiscal year?

And you mentioned in your speech the pricing environment of that business, which has obviously worsened. Could you give us maybe some idea how much that pricings are on the way down at the moment?

And the second area, as regard to Stainless, could you mention the impact you are facing from the fire in Krefeld? And, indirect -- not only from the insurance-related costs you have but also from the loss in volume? Because, if we are coming your business with other Stainless companies, you will probably have a profiting margin less pronounced that some of your competitors.

And the third question, on Automotive, could you give us the status quo of your restructuring of your Body and Wide business and the Tooling business in  Europe? And what has to be done there on the further charges also and what to expect.

And finally, on your strategy, coming back to the plan B scenario, what happens to the Stainless plants, greenfield Stainless plants if Dofasco is not materializing? Thank you.

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: Well, I will take the question on Automotive and the Stainless. As far as the restructuring of Automotive in  Europe is concerned, we have two business units which we will tackle the next 12 to 18 months. That is about [Drout Snothelfe]. We have to restructure the businesses to achieve the turnaround. A similar approach will be taken by -- taken in France with Sofedit, the Body and Chassis producer, Sofedit in France. But we expect that we can achieve it in the next 12 to 15 months and then achieve the turnaround. The restructuring costs will be much lower compared to last year's restructuring costs, which Ulrich Middelmann mentioned, this more than EUR300m. We expect the restructuring costs for the Body and Chassis activities and Drout Snothelfe activities, for the current fiscal year, below EUR100m restructuring costs.

So, the second question concerning, Greenfield Stainless, if Dofasco will not materialize. Of course, we are looking for both the two alternatives but it's more a question of the right timing. If we can do Dofasco as soon as possible for something, first quarter next year, we have of course a little more room and a little more time before the  decision of Greenfield in the NAFTA region is concerned. But for -- especially for Stainless, this very relatively small and relatively limited window of opportunity to take the decision of Greenfield in the United States. Therefore, we will come relatively soon with that decision as far as Greenfield in the United States is concerned.

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: And you ask for restructuring costs in Korea, it's EUR13m, as an extraordinary expense. What you ask concerning orders, it's mainly normal course of business. In all, it's a huge amount, a huge number of service contracts. So in certain areas of the world where the economy in general is good, we have a better situation. In other areas, it's for a certain period of time limited, so there is no significant influence to mention. It's ordinary course of business I would say.

You asked for the Krefeld fire. We agreed with the insurance company about a support of EUR285m. One third is corresponding to the destroyed assets, and two third is the loss we have in our current business. You do not find this figure in the fiscal year accounting because something is done in the last fiscal year, and the losses we have, actually, that we lose certain orders in this year, is not found in the last fiscal year, of course. So we have an extraordinary depreciation of the burned plant of EUR35m. In our last fiscal year, the agreement with the insurance company we made a couple of weeks ago. So this is a matter of this current fiscal year, so it affects two years and is not so easy to describe. We try to use all our activities in China and also in Turin to meet the demand of all our clients so there is a further higher utilization now in China, and we bring a lot of material here to Western  Europe to meet all the demand. Because this is our first priority to serve the customers and to bridge this up to the middle or respectively end of the year when our new installations are on track. So that's the situation with the fire.
Page 14 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Obviously, the shortage in capacity helped to improve the prices, but I think it's mainly driven by the
Otokumpu capacity reduction and not by ours.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Next question, please, Hermann Reith.

HERMANN REITH, ANALYST, BHF BANK: Just one question, related to Stainless Steel. What is the amount of annual contracts in Stainless Steel? And what is the price increase you have negotiated for these annual contracts for the next fiscal -- for the next calendar year? Thank you.
EKKEHARD SCHULZ: The annual contract volume of Stainless Steel is roughly 25%. Okay. HERMANN REITH: What is the price increase versus previous year in this contract?
EKKEHARD SCHULZ: It's difficult to say it here. Maybe you can -- Mr. Moritz can call you later on, but I
don't have the figure right now here.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: So we usually do not disclose this you know. Next question, please, [Gossien Robst]. GOSSIEN ROBST, ANALYST: Just one question concerning the Automotive section, you have on page
25, you have these two pillars, mechanical components and automotive solutions and four page before you
say that you will focus on components. What we have in our solutions, you have EUR4.4b, so can we
expect that after restructuring for Drout Snothelfe and maybe some other plants there, that you are looking
for divestment on the part of EUR4b and you are going only to mechanical components and we can expect
divestments of the Automotive Solution business?

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: This answer we can -- this question we can answer to you in 12 months when we have accomplished our investigations, which part of the business we will keep and which one we can turnaround and which one we will sell and which we will divest. So it's too early but we have an agreement with our labor representatives. We will investigate in the next 12 to 15 months the special situation of the Automotive business units which includes all you mentioned and then we will take our  decision.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Next question. Vincent, please.

VINCENT LEPINE, ANALYST, EXANE BNP PARIBAS: Good afternoon. Vincent Lepine from Exane BNP Paribas. I had two questions, please. One on the environment in carbon steel in  Europe, if you could just comment on inventory levels? Any pressure you're feeling from imports. Also if you could tell us what you would expect Chinese net exports to be next year versus what we expect for the current fiscal -- or for
2006.

We have heard of Arcelor Mittal talking about some production cuts in  Europe, in calendar Q4 and Q1 next year. Are you planning to follow suit to some extent?

And then the second question is on the possible impact from the tax reform. I know it's still being negotiated but assuming that the corporate tax rate were to drop to 30% or something like that, what would be the rough effective impact for the Group? Thank you.

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: As far as the environment for Steel in  Europe is concerned and the possible exports coming from China, we have some information that we will se in next year some exports coming from China. As you know, at the end of the year 2006, China will be a net exporter in Steel especially for commodity rates in long and in flat products. So, that is not relative to our business. So we are not active in commodities and neither in long or in flat products. So we are not affected by these imports coming from China into Europe. So what nobody can exclude that we will see a certain reduction in demand in  Europe as far as far as the Steel -- in the Steel segment. And it's quite natural if there is a need to reduce volume in order to keep prices at a reasonable level. We are already prepared for the situation price to volume. That's always ThyssenKrupp's strategy but it's not necessary for us to reduce production because we are still short in slabs. And, in such a case that the order intake will be a little weaker next year, we can reduce our purchase to volume of slabs and run our operation on full power. That's our philosophy and that's our strategy.

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Then there was a question concerning the tax reform. Of course, it's not finalized. We are in the middle of the negotiations and fortunately here, our Head of Tax is one of the key members from the industrial side in the negotiating team with the Government. Our consideration, or our assumption is, when everything will develop as we expect, that it will bring an advantage between 3 to 5% in comparison to the actual situation. So it will be in favor for us.

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: As far as inventory level and imports is concerned, I think it's not a critical development for the plan B.


Page 15 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Okay. Next question, Andy, please.

ANDY SNOWDON, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Hi, good afternoon. [Andy Snowdon], from JP Morgan. I have three questions. First, on Services, if I compare your Services division and the margins with peer companies like [Kruppner] and other companies like [BE] Group, there's still a pretty distinct margin gap. Do you have a strategy to close this gap?

The second question is on the CSA project. Can you give us some guidance on the cost differential between Brazil slab, CSA slab and slab at Duisburg?

And lastly, on the Elevator business, I've heard from your competitors like [Kone and Schindler] that Thyssen Elevator is purchasing a lot of third party service contracts from smaller private players for which it is paying very expensive multiples. Is this true?
EKKEHARD SCHULZ: Your question concerning cost difference between Brazil and Duisburg, it's roughly
$70, not in  euros. EUR50  euros or $70 per tonne. And you have the question from [Kruppner]?

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: The difference in the margins, obviously, with the Kruppner people and our people, I think you will have to take into account that the Kruppner company started from a very low level, it's fairly new, with the IPO idea that  ThyssenKrupp Services is a well established company on a high level I do not think in total Kruppner profitability is higher. The mixture might be different they have to ours, but
we feel that our Services segment is very profitable actually in their certain fields. I think it's more a question of the mixture of products because it's not very homogenous, what they do and what we do.

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: As far as contracts for Elevator is concerned, we do not buy big packages for service contracts for Elevator. We do it ourselves.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Next question, please. Alan Coates, please.

ALAN COATES, ANALYST, HSBC: Alan Coates at HSBC. Just a couple of points on the Steel-related sector. Firstly, zinc. The price of zinc has gone up absolutely enormously. The assumption is you are losing margin on your one-year contracts because the galvanized zinc costs have gone up and the prices haven't. How are you going to deal with that in 2007? Will you be able to pass on the massive increase in the zinc price, or will you have a cost plus system like Mittal seems to be suggesting? That's the one on zinc.

I'm assuming in Stainless Steel you have a big improvement because you get the insurance claim, and I'd also assume that people like [Bosch] would have to pay a bit more for Stainless Steel in the course of 2007 because they had a very good ride on long-term contracts this year. So I'm assuming an improvement in Stainless Steel coming from the insurance claim and from long-term contracts getting better anyway because they seemed to do rather well last year. And just the question on the zinc side. Thanks.

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Of course, zinc price more than doubled recently, therefore, we are in negotiations with the customers also to overcoming this price increase. And when I see the increase of those contracts we already did with the Automotive industry, it covers that increase. So, cost-wise, we included it and get even more, so there is in the appropriate situation.

In Stainless, I think it's worth to pronounce again that the insurance is not a profit increase because we have a similar amount of costs on the other side. So, over the year, it's more or less neutral. It might be a plus of 10/15 or minus of 10, having in mind that there was also a fiscal year end in between. But this is not a significant extraordinary item to our situation.

You are absolutely right, on the other side, that the shortage in capacity leads to higher prices. And when I talked that actually of the base price is on a level of 1,600 or even more in some spot areas 1,800 to 1,900, to a normal level, which I would say, on a normal level of 13 in good years. So there is a high additional profit. Actually, this definitely will last to end of March because we actually book up to end of March. And it might also last up to the end of our fiscal year so end of September because our cold rolling activities go back onstream end of the year.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Further questions, please. Sylvain, please.

SYLVAIN BRUNET, ANALYST, EXANE BNP PARIBAS: Sylvain Brunet with Exane BNP Paribas. Just a further question on the Stainless Steel. What was the latest trend you've noticed in the U.S.? We were hearing that the base price increases in October/November were facing resistance?

And my second question is on the cash allocation. Are you thinking of contributing to your unfunded pension deficit as well, now you've got a cash rich position? Thank you.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Sorry, the second part of the question, we didn't get it.

Page 16 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
SYLVAIN BRUNET: Are you thinking of making an allocation to your pension deficit as well in the funding?

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Oh, yes, I understand. So, let's start with the last thing. If I understand you right and you ask if we use our cash which we have available in the same way we have it in the U.S., so that we take a significant amount to fund it here. Because in Germany we only have this provisions system, I would like to answer, our experience from the United States, where we have a funded fund of EUR2b, and profitability on a level actually of 9%, is by far lower. When I see here our return on capital employed for all our assets of EUR17/18b in the Company with a total return on capital employed of 17/18%, it makes no sense to put money out of the pocket and have it not available for investments in our main business areas, and to put it in a fund with the potential end results of 9% that would waste value. So actually we have no plan in mind to do so.

As I mentioned in my speech, all the provisions here under German circumstances are fully equipped, and in the United States all the funds are fully funded. So the situation is absolutely in line and we feel comfortable with that structure.
Concerning your first question, it was -- GUNDOLF MORITZ: [Inaudible].
ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Stainless price, in the United States, well actually I hear from our Mexinox company that there is room for profit increase in the next year. So we are, obviously, are not affected from any price decreases or price [suffering].
GUNDOLF MORITZ: A further question, please, Michael, Michael Broeker.

MICHAEL BROEKER, ANALYST, STEUBING: Michael Broeker from Steubing in Frankfurt. Just two minor questions. The first one is, can you give us an idea in carbon steel what the order intake was over in probably the first two months of the fiscal year? And do you have any ideas in volume terms, in terms of suppliers?

And the second question is, one of your competitors said that the overstocking in the international steel industry much be just a matter of the fourth quarter. Do you share this view? Thank you.

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: Order intake, carbon steel, October/November was at a reasonable level. Just in balance with our budget but we expected. So there's no decrease in October when compared to last fiscal year or last quarter. So, I can only repeat, we expect another very good Steel year in our fiscal year '06/'07.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: And can you repeat the second part of your question, Michael, please?

MICHAEL BROEKER: Yes. One of your competitors said that the overstocking in the international steel industry might be just a matter of the fourth quarter. Do you share this view?

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: An overstocking in  Europe is not global. We heard about higher stocks inventories in the United States. That's the reason why price decreased in the United States, or started to decrease in the United States, in the NAFTA region but so far not in  Europe. And I'm sure you are aware that the price level in the NAFTA region, last year, or last fiscal year, was far above the price level of Europe. Up to $150 sometimes $200 per tonne. Higher price level in the United States compared to European price and, therefore, we expected a certain price decrease in the NAFTA region in the current fiscal year.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: A further question, please. Peter Metzger, please.

PETER METZGER, ANALYST, M.M. WARBURG & CO.: Peter Metzger from M.M. Warburg. The first question refers to your introductory remarks. Did I get it correctly that the Krupp foundation is going to increase its shareholding in your Company to something like 25%? And is that -- are these shares going to be purchased on the market or are you going to sell Treasury shares to them again? And why actually do you think you need such a protection given your strong operating performance?

As to the second question, I would like to come back to your earnings guidance -- on the sales guidance for the Services business. In the annual report you are saying that you expect a decline in revenues in the Services business. Is that an indication that, in the course of 2007, you expect raw material prices, and especially steel prices, to decline on a spot basis?

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: As far as the Krupp Foundation is concerned, I think we have to look a little in the history of the company. So the Krupp Foundation, controlled in the past, at the beginning, 100% of Krupp, then 75% of Krupp, and after the merger of  ThyssenKrupp in March '99, the Krupp Foundation controlled
17. -- roughly 18% of our shares and bought shares in order to keep their present position of 23.7%. And


Page 17 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
announced now and signaled now that [she] intends to buy another 1.5 or 2% in order to keep -- to get 25.
-- at least to exceed the 25% level.

We are, as the Management Board, we enjoy [it], we accept it, we are in favor of such a solution. It has nothing to do with what you think is necessary in order to protect the Company. But, of course, it helps if you have strong, big shareholders. And that is, of course, very good to continue with our very aggressive growth path, which we have presented to you. And, therefore, we are in favor of such a move of the Krupp Foundation.

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: There was a question whether they might buy it from the market, might buy it from our Treasury stocks. Actually, they didn't ask us whether our Treasury stocks are available. We have this
4.9%, so I assume that they might buy it from the market or from banks. So they are fully independent and have their own ideas how to organize this.

A question on iron ore prices or raw material prices, in general. I think we have to differentiate. Coke and coal obviously is going down. Iron ore is open. The normal contract year of iron ore is ending end of March, so there was a light beginning in contacts between the producers and the steel companies.

We hope, from our point of view, that there is not a significant increase in prices, of course. But what I see, if I would be an independent observer, is that the demand in general in the world is increasing in steel, and mainly in those areas where the companies have not their iron ore -- there own ore resources. So we might have to face a certain increase. On the other side, I'm sure that the iron ore producers understood that the movements in the past with these huge jumps of [70%] or even 27% or something like that, was politically not fair or whatever you might say. So if there is an increase, I expect that it is limited in a one-digit area or something like that.

GUNDOLF MORITZ: Okay. I think, since Ekkehard Schulz needs to rush out of the meeting at exactly 4pm, I would like to ask you if you have a very specific question to the Chairman, please address it right now so that we make best use of your time and of our Chairman's time. Is there any specific question? Hermann Reith, please.

HERMANN REITH: Yes, thank you. Mr. Schulz, on the double [A&I] meeting in Buenos Aires you mentioned that  ThyssenKrupp will not stay on the level you are achieving in your investment plan, that means the Greenfield plant and Dofasco in the U.S. but that, in the longer run you will also step into the Asian market. And if you could think also on, let's say, to get excess on raw material assets. Could you elaborate on these thoughts?

EKKEHARD SCHULZ: As far as the Asian market is concerned, we have our two Joint Ventures in China as far as Stainless Steel is concerned with [power group], Shanghai Krupp Stainless, and we have -- which is doing much better after the first five years in which SKS, Shanghai Krupp Stainless, was not so profitable and not performing so well. But the beginning this last fiscal year, and what we expect in the current fiscal year, is that SKS is doing much better. And so we are quite optimistic that we can continue this strategy in Stainless together with our partner, Baogang Group.

As far as carbon steel is concerned, we have a joint venture with [Angang] in the [Dallian], [Angang Group Anshang], which is doing very well. We decided right now to invest in a second hot dip galvanizing line after the first one is fully booked and fully loaded and running profitable. So it's the right time to increase capacity and we do it together with our partner Baogang Group. For the time being we have more ideas to invest in upstream activities in integrated steel mills. That's not our intention. And we focus, as far as upstream activities is concerned, through our Atlantic strategy, which we have described to you, which is project CSA in Brazil. And Dofasco, the acquisition of Dofasco and greenfield in the U.S.A. So that is our situation.

As far as raw materials is concerned, we are still investigating a possibility whether it would make sense to do it together with partners, but we didn't come to a final  decision up to now.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: I think there was a question in the back, [spoken in German].

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, a question to steel pricing. Do you expect  European flat steel spot prices to fall in '07? And what would be a realistic extent? And what would that mean for the margin of your Service business?

And a second question on [2.5b] for EBT guidance, what are the underlying assumptions with regards to the margin growth of your current steel operations, excluding the extensions you are planning?

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Yes, your question was margin situation in steel prices -- the steel price situation in the spot price market next year. You know our philosophy. If our price assumptions we expect cannot be achieved, then we shorten our production, reduce our offering in the market to stabilize. We did this very effective last year and the year before. So, it's -- you know this item or issue, price before tonnage.
Page 18 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
I think the way to manage the prices and to manage the market it's quite different today in comparison how we did this in the past. So, I'm fairly optimistic that we can meet our expectations. And I'm always very pleased to hear via the press releases from the market leader, Mittal Group, but also [Lakshme] Mittal also supports this philosophy of price before tonnage and he announced that he will reduce capacity for a certain period of time to shortage the offerings in the market.

I think all this will stabilize the market. We have the special situation that we are in the premium segment, which is running in a different way than the commodity area. But for the next coming nine or 10 months I'm fairly positive that we meet the expectations in total we just mentioned.

And what was this second? And concerning if there might be a light suffering, well, the people in the Service segment planned a little more conservative, therefore, I mentioned the basis -- the basic line I see in a profit scenery of EUR100m EBT per quarter. So, this leads to EUR400m per year, so something between EUR400 and EUR500m is my expectation for that segment.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Next question comes from Klaus [Weier].

KLAUS WEIER, ANALYST, COMMINVEST ASSET MANAGEMENT: Klaus [Weier] from [Comminvest] Asset Management. I have a question on your EBT guidance for '06/'07. On what U.S. dollar rate do you base that guidance? Thank you.

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Our dollar base in the budget is $1.25. In general, our experience is then, if the dollar is lower, like today, that we will have certain advantages. That's especially coming from Stainless as we buy more on a dollar base than we sell into the dollar markets. Therefore, it's an advantage on our side.
But you are aware that we are also hedging most of our businesses. So, this gives a certain -- [like]
different impact in detail, but in general the answer is right.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: Next question [Rochus Brauneiser] please.

ROCHUS BRAUNEISER: A few follow-up questions if I may. First of all, coming back to the Krefeld damage, could you give us a rough idea how -- to which quarters -- to which extent these burdens are allocated?

And secondly, could you give us a rough idea how tight this supply situation currently is at Stainless, as probably there are still some production programs at one of your competitor side?

And thirdly, what's your feeling about imports coming to  Europe? Do you think that we have already seen the peak? Do you expect any positive impact from the Chinese Government? What's your view on that for the next six months? Thank you.

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Good, starting with the last point, we actually have to face 30,000 tonnes in Stainless as imports in the market. But the market actually is so robust that it cannot affect the price situation. Of course, we have to be aware that some of these imports are imports from our own Company, SKS, to  Europe to meet the demand of our clients. But, also on the other side, there is a strong market, which obviously needs these tonnages by the reduction of capacity on Otokumpu side and temporarily on our side.
The first question from the acoustic point, it's very difficult here but -- GUNDOLF MORITZ: [Spoken in German].
ULRICH MIDDELMANN: Well, we are building the new plant. So, we have not a different situation concerning Krefeld in the different quarters. We are building it. We are providing the markets from our capacities from SKS and from Turin where we had some free capacity. So, it's a more or less constant situation as we have it today.
[Spoken in German].

GUNDOLF MORITZ: With regard to the insurance claims, there were many affects in the first quarter if that was your question.
Next question please, Andy again.

ANDY SNOWDON: I just have one question about the  European Union Commission on price fixing for the Elevators are going to come out with a  decision pretty near term. Do you have any provisions, because from what I understand the  fines can go up to 10% of your annual sales?


Page 19 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
ULRICH MIDDELMANN: No, we have not any provision for that. We do not know the time of the announcement of the EU, nor do we have any idea about the volume. So, there is nothing in our last fiscal year, and nor in the quarter, or there was definitely nothing else in our books, and we have no idea concerning time and volume.
GUNDOLF MORITZ: I think since there are no further question I will now again hand over to Ulrich
Middelmann for end statement.

ULRICH MIDDELMANN: I would like to thank you first for your -- for attending. The Investor Relation team will, of course, be happy to answer any further questions you may have. And the replay of the video stream from this meeting will be available for downloading from the Internet later on.

At this point a personnel issue, as you already know, Gundolf is about to leave the Company as of end of January next year. On behalf of the entire Management Team, I would like to thank him for the excellent work he has done for our Company in the last four years. Good luck and all the best for your future career and I'm sure we will keep close contact, because I'm aware what he is doing in the future.

In May this year when we informed you about Gundolf's  decision we told you that his successor is already under contract. Well, it took a while and, to be honest, longer than expected, but now I am pleased that he is here with us. Maybe one or the other of you is already familiar with his name, which is Dr. [Klaus Irenbeck] and he is here in front and you might know him, because he was Head of Investor Relation of the famous [Hotief] company.

Klaus, welcome on board and good luck to you. He already got a little impression what it means to head the Investor Relation team in our Company since in the last couple of days he was involved in the preparation of today's conference.
Looking to our Investor Relation diary, on slide 37, the next event will be the Annual General Meeting on
January 19, 2007 in Bochum. The figures for the first quarter '06/'07 will be published on February 13,
2007, when we will host a conference call. On March 20 and 21 next year you are cordially invited to our
next field day in Krakow, as I mentioned in my speech in Katowice covering the Services segment and
there the professionals might ask all the questions more in detail than you could have today.
Here, beside others, we will provide the opportunity to visit the newly-built and jointly-used service center in
Katowice, Poland.

Our next analysts and investors meeting will be held on May 15 in London, shortly after publication of our half year results. The Investor Relation team and I will be on road show from next week on.

Thank you very much for your attention and so the official part is over now. And I would like to invite you to some finger food we prepared here in the library, and where we have the possibility to discuss one or the other question.

You will meet me on the one or other one on one, or during the road shows now which we start next week in Frankfurt, then go to London, Dublin, Edinburgh. So, before Christmas here in the  European area and very early next year I will be in the United States, in New York, in Boston, in the first decade. So, there are a lot of opportunities to meet and to strengthen our relationship.

And thank you very much for your attendance and I'm looking into a good future with an exchange of thoughts with you. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE

Page 20 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]
CO   thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN     i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Metals/Mining

NS   c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | npeo : People Profile | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
RE   gfr : Germany | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North
America | weurz : Western Europe
PUB Voxant, Inc.
AN   Document FNDW000020061215e2c1000b6




















































Page 21 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD               DJ EU Reimposes  EUR3.17M Cartel Fine On ThyssenKrupp
WC               91 words
PD                20 December 2006
ET                12:21 PM
SN                Dow Jones Commodities Service
SC                OSTDJ
LA                English
CY                Copyright 2006, Comtex News Network. All Rights Reserved.

LP
BRUSSELS, Dec 20, 2006 (DJCS via Comtex) --

The European Commission Wednesday reimposed a EUR3.17 million  fine on German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA.XE) for its role in a stainless steel cartel.

TD
The commission fined ThyssenKrupp in 1998 for participating in the cartel, but that  decision
was thrown out by a European Union appeals court due to a technicality.
The commission said it has corrected its mistake and reinstated  ThyssenKrupp's fine. (MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires
12-20-06 0621ET

CO               thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN                 i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Metals/Mining
NS                eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE                gfr : Germany | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD               dow+jones
PUB             Dow Jones Commodities Service
AN                Document OSTDJ00020061220e2ck00196
























Page 22 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD           EU Fines ThyssenKrupp EUR3.17M For Stainless  Cartel
WC          226 words
PD           20 December 2006
ET            12:05 PM
SN           Dow Jones Capital Markets Report
SC           CM
LA            English
CY           (c) 2006 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LP
BRUSSELS (Dow Jones)--The European Commission Wednesday reimposed a EUR3.17 million
fine on German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA.XE) for its role in a stainless steel cartel.

The commission fined ThyssenKrupp in 1998 for participating in the cartel, but that  decision was thrown out by a European Union appeals court due to a technicality.

TD
The commission said it has corrected its mistake and reinstated  ThyssenKrupp's fine. [ 12-20-06
0621ET ]

"Today's  decision shows again that the  commission will correct any procedural mistake made so that companies can rest assured that they will not escape cartel  fines," the  commission's top antitrust official Neelie Kroes said in a statement.
In 1998, the commission found eight stainless steel makers, including  Thyssen Stahl GmbH, a
ThyssenKrupp unit, agreed to a coordinated price hike known as an "alloy surcharge."

The commission fined the companies a total of over EUR27 million.  ThyssenKrupp was held responsible for its subsidiary, but appealed the  decision to an E.U. court, claiming the  commission didn't consult the parent company during its investigation.
The court agreed with the German steelmaker, and overturned the  commission's fine. The
commission relaunched its case against  ThyssenKrupp last year.
-By Adam Cohen, Dow Jones Newswires; +322 741 1486; adam.cohen@dowjones.com [ 12-20-06
0639ET ]

CO           thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN             i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Metals/Mining

NS           eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE           gfr : Germany | eurz : Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | weurz : Western Europe
IPC          DJCS
PUB         Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN           Document CM00000020061220e2ck0008n










Page 23 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD                   EU Fines ThyssenKrupp EUR3.17M For Stainless  Cartel
WC                  226 words
PD                   20 December 2006
ET                    12:05 PM
SN                   Dow Jones News Service
SC                   DJ
LA                    English
CY                   (c) 2006 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LP
BRUSSELS (Dow Jones)--The European Commission Wednesday reimposed a EUR3.17 million fine on German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA.XE) for its role in a stainless steel cartel.
The commission fined ThyssenKrupp in 1998 for participating in the cartel, but that  decision
was thrown out by a European Union appeals court due to a technicality.

TD
The commission said it has corrected its mistake and reinstated  ThyssenKrupp's fine. [
12-20-06 0621ET ]

"Today's  decision shows again that the  commission will correct any procedural mistake made so that companies can rest assured that they will not escape cartel  fines," the  commission's top antitrust official Neelie Kroes said in a statement.
In 1998, the commission found eight stainless steel makers, including  Thyssen Stahl GmbH, a
ThyssenKrupp unit, agreed to a coordinated price hike known as an "alloy surcharge."

The commission fined the companies a total of over EUR27 million.  ThyssenKrupp was held responsible for its subsidiary, but appealed the  decision to an E.U. court, claiming the commission didn't consult the parent company during its investigation.
The court agreed with the German steelmaker, and overturned the  commission's fine. The
commission relaunched its case against  ThyssenKrupp last year.
-By Adam Cohen, Dow Jones Newswires; +322 741 1486; adam.cohen@dowjones.com [
12-20-06 0639ET ]

CO                   thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN                     i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Metals/Mining

NS                   eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE                   gfr : Germany | eurz : Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | weurz : Western Europe
IPC                  DJCS
PUB                 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN                   Document DJ00000020061220e2ck000eg






Page 24 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD         EU Fines ThyssenKrupp EUR3.17M For Stainless  Cartel
WC        226 words
PD         20 December 2006
ET          12:05 PM
SN         Dow Jones Commodities Service
SC         DJCS
LA          English
CY         (c) 2006 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LP
BRUSSELS (Dow Jones)--The European Commission Wednesday reimposed a EUR3.17 million  fine
on German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA.XE) for its role in a stainless steel cartel.

The commission fined ThyssenKrupp in 1998 for participating in the cartel, but that  decision was thrown out by a European Union appeals court due to a technicality.

TD
The commission said it has corrected its mistake and reinstated  ThyssenKrupp's fine. [ 12-20-06
0621ET ]

"Today's  decision shows again that the  commission will correct any procedural mistake made so that companies can rest assured that they will not escape cartel  fines," the  commission's top antitrust official Neelie Kroes said in a statement.
In 1998, the commission found eight stainless steel makers, including  Thyssen Stahl GmbH, a
ThyssenKrupp unit, agreed to a coordinated price hike known as an "alloy surcharge."

The commission fined the companies a total of over EUR27 million.  ThyssenKrupp was held responsible for its subsidiary, but appealed the  decision to an E.U. court, claiming the  commission didn't consult the parent company during its investigation.
The court agreed with the German steelmaker, and overturned the  commission's fine. The
commission relaunched its case against  ThyssenKrupp last year.
-By Adam Cohen, Dow Jones Newswires; +322 741 1486; adam.cohen@dowjones.com [ 12-20-06
0639ET ]

CO         thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN           i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Metals/Mining

NS         eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e512 : Physical Trade | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE         gfr : Germany | eurz : Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | weurz : Western Europe
IPC        DJCS
PUB       Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN         Document DJCS000020061220e2ck0008l








Page 25 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       EU reimposes cartel fine on ThyssenKrupp
WC      246 words
PD       20 December 2006
ET       11:47 AM
SN       Reuters News
SC       LBA
LA       English
CY       (c) 2006 Reuters Limited

LP
BRUSSELS, Dec 20 (Reuters) - The European Commission re-imposed on Wednesday a  fine against German steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp of 3.1 million euros ($4.1 million) for fixing prices in the 1990s, after an earlier fine was overturned by an EU court on procedural grounds.

The European Union's executive arm had in 1998  fined ThyssenKrupp Stainless, which took liability for the cartel behaviour of  Thyssen Stahl GmbH.

TD
But the European Court of Justice, the EU's highest court, found in 2005 that the Commission had failed to invite ThyssenKrupp Stainless to give its views on the cartel actions by Thyssen Stahl, the Commission said.
After the fine was thrown out the  Commission reopened the case and this time was careful to seek
ThyssenKrupp's views.

The original decision taken in 1998 was against eight stainless steel producers, which had agreed on a general price increase for stainless steel known as the "alloy surcharge".
The surcharge was calculated on the basis of the prices of alloys (nickel, chromium and molybdenum)
and added to the basic price of stainless steel.

The cost of the alloys used by stainless steel producers formed a large proportion of the total production costs.

The original fine against ThyssenKrupp was 3.56 million euros. But the Commission noted the court had reduced similar fines in parallel circumstances and thus reduced the original fine.

RF       THYSSSENKRUPP/CARTEL|LANGEN|ABN|C|MTL|E|RBN|D|RNP|PCO
CO      thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN        i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | imet : Metals/Mining

NS       c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | gcrim : Crime/Courts | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpol : Domestic Politics | c18 : Ownership Changes | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gcns : National Security | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
RE       eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gfr : Germany | weurz : Western Europe
IPC      EU
PUB    Reuters Limited
AN       Document LBA0000020061220e2ck0019k





Page 26 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD        Commission fines ThyssenKrupp Stainless  €3.17m
BY       Mark Beveridge
WC      346 words
PD       20 December 2006
ET       03:36 PM
SN       Metal Bulletin News Alert Service
SC       METBNA
LA       English
CY       (c) 2006 Metal Bulletin plc

LP
The European Commission has fined ThyssenKrupp Stainless €3.17 million for the part one of its corporate predecessors played in a price fixing cartel between 1993 and 1994.

Thyssen Stahl AG, which became ThyssenKrupp Stainless in 1995, was among eight stainless steel producers found by the Commission to have coordinated a general increase in the alloy surcharge for stainless steel products.

TD
The Commission imposedan €8 million in 1998, but the  European Court of Justice partially annulled it in 2005 because of procedural problems that arose out of the relationship between  ThyssenKrupp Stainless and  Thyssen Stahl AG. The Court ruled that ThyssenKrupp Stainless had not been specifically invited to comment on the involvement of Thyssen Stahl AG's involvement in the cartel. ThyssenKrupp Stainless's  fine was reduced, while the part that related to the activities of  Thyssen Stahl AG was overturned.

But today the Commission said it has addressed the procedural weaknesses of its original  decision and decided to re-impose the fine, albeit at a lower level than originally envisaged.

"Today's  decision shows again that the  Commission will correct any procedural mistake so that companies can rest assured that they will not escape cartel  fines for procedural reasons," said Neelie Kroes, the EU's competition commissioner.

The Commission began its investigation after a number of European stainless steel producers roughly doubled their prices during the course of 1994. The Commission subsequently decided that meetings which had taken place between producers in December 1993 had led to a distortion of the market and represented anti-competitive practice. It has reinstated the element of the original  fine that applied to Thyssen Stahl's AG activities in 1993 and 1994.

ThyssenKrupp Stainless said it is considering lodging an appeal.

"ThyssenKrupp Stainless maintains its opinion that for various legal reasons the EU  Commission can today no longer impose a  fine relating to this case," said  ThyssenKrupp Stainless in a statement. "It is therefore probable that the company, after examining the written grounds for this ruling, will launch an appeal."
RF       1334993
CO      thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN        i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | imet : Metals/Mining
NS       eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE       gfr : Germany | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
IPD      Iron & Steel


Page 27 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
PUB    Metal Bulletin PLC
AN       Document METBNA0020061220e2ck001ba




































































Page 28 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD           EU Fines ThyssenKrupp EUR3.17M For Stainless  Cartel
WC          226 words
PD           20 December 2006
ET            12:05 PM
SN           Dow Jones International News
SC           DJI
LA            English
CY           (c) 2006 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LP
BRUSSELS (Dow Jones)--The European Commission Wednesday reimposed a EUR3.17 million
fine on German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA.XE) for its role in a stainless steel cartel.

The commission fined ThyssenKrupp in 1998 for participating in the cartel, but that  decision was thrown out by a European Union appeals court due to a technicality.

TD
The commission said it has corrected its mistake and reinstated  ThyssenKrupp's fine. [ 20-12-06
1121GMT ]

"Today's  decision shows again that the  commission will correct any procedural mistake made so that companies can rest assured that they will not escape cartel  fines," the  commission's top antitrust official Neelie Kroes said in a statement.
In 1998, the commission found eight stainless steel makers, including  Thyssen Stahl GmbH, a
ThyssenKrupp unit, agreed to a coordinated price hike known as an "alloy surcharge."

The commission fined the companies a total of over EUR27 million.  ThyssenKrupp was held responsible for its subsidiary, but appealed the  decision to an E.U. court, claiming the  commission didn't consult the parent company during its investigation.
The court agreed with the German steelmaker, and overturned the  commission's fine. The
commission relaunched its case against  ThyssenKrupp last year.
-By Adam Cohen, Dow Jones Newswires; +322 741 1486; adam.cohen@dowjones.com [ 20-12-06
1139GMT ]

CO           thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN             i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Metals/Mining

NS           eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE           gfr : Germany | eurz : Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | weurz : Western Europe
IPC          DJCS
PUB         Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN           Document DJI0000020061220e2ck00146










Page 29 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD         Business Brief: ThyssenKrupp AG WC        117 words
PD         21 December 2006
SN         The Wall Street Journal Europe
SC         WSJE
LA          English
CY         (Copyright (c) 2006, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

LP
The European Commission reimposed a 3.17 million  euro ($4.18 million) fine on German steelmaker
ThyssenKrupp AG for its role in a stainless-steel cartel. The commission fined ThyssenKrupp in
1998 for participating in the cartel, but that decision was thrown out by a European Union appeals
court due to a technicality. The commission said it has corrected its mistake and reinstated
ThyssenKrupp's fine. "Today's decision shows again that the  commission will correct any
procedural mistake made so that companies can rest assured that they will not escape cartel  fines," the
commission's top antitrust official Neelie Kroes said in a statement.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service
CO         thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN          i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Metals/Mining

NS         eec : European Union | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE         gfr : Germany | eurz : Europe | eecz : European Union Countries | weurz : Western Europe
IPC        DJCS
PUB       Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN         Document WSJE000020061221e2cl00015




























Page 30 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      CARTELS : CARTEL FINE CATCHES UP WITH THYSSEN WC     289 words
PD      21 December 2006
SN      Europolitics SC      EURREP LA      English
CY      Copyright 2006 Europe Information Service All Rights Reserved

LP
A fine of €3,168,000 has been re-imposed on steel giant  ThyssenKrupp despite being overturned by the
European Courts. The Court had annulled the  fine on procedural grounds in July 2005.

The European Commission announced the decision to insist that the company,  ThyssenKrupp Stainless AG, pay up on 20 December. The Commission reopened cartel proceedings against the company in April 2006 and reached the same conclusions.

TD
Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said: "Today's  decision shows again that the  Commission will correct any procedural mistake made so that companies can rest assured that they will not escape cartel fines for procedural reasons."

The fine was originally imposed in 1998 for breaches of what was then the ECSC Treaty (now lapsed but the obligations remain in force) by taking part in a cartel with five other steel firms. The parties got together and imposed charges on stainless steel products which effectively doubled their price in the space of a year.  ThyssenKrupp was fined for its own behaviour and that of its related company
Thyssen Stahl.

Thyssen appealed and initially the Court of First Instance and then the Court of Justice overturned the Commission decision on the grounds that  ThyssenKrupp had not been explicitly asked to comment on or refute the allegations against  Thyssen Stahl. In April 2006, therefore, the  Commission reopened the case and reissued objections in which it explicitly rectified this procedural error.

The amount of the  fine was originally €3,564,000, having been reduced by 10% in recognition of the company's cooperation. This time, however, it was further reduced by 20% (to €3,168,000) to reflect recent European Court rulings on the  Commission's leniency notice.
RF      6905620061221
CO      thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN        i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | imet : Metals/Mining
NS      eec : European Union | eucj : European Court of Justice | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE      gfr : Germany | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
PUB    Europe Information Service SA
AN      Document EURREP0020061220e2cl00007











Page 31 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD       EU Commission reimposes cartel fine on TK Stainless
WC       231 words
PD        21 December 2006
SN        Steel Business Briefing
SC        STSCNW
LA        English
CY        (c) 2006 Steel Business Briefing

LP
The European Commission has reimposed a fine of €3.17m on Germany’s  ThyssenKrupp Stainless for its predecessor company’s participation in a price-fixing cartel. The move follows a court ruling last year partially annulling the  fine – originally announced in 1998 – on procedural grounds.

In 1998 the Brussels authorities imposed  fines on eight stainless steel producers for illegally collaborating to impose alloy surcharges in the period 1993-94. One of the companies  fined was ThyssenKrupp Stainless, on the basis that it was liable for the behaviour of its predecessor company Thyssen Stahl during 1993-94.

TD
The courts, however, partly annulled the  fine on the grounds that the Commission had not explicitly invited TK Stainless to give its views on the cartel behaviour of Thyssen Stahl. Following the court ruling of July 2005, the  Commission corrected this procedural error by issuing a statement of objections to TK Stainless and inviting it to comment.

In a statement obtained by Steel Business Briefing, EU competition commissioner Neelie Kroes said: "Today's  decision shows again that the  Commission will correct any procedural mistake made, so that companies can rest assured that they will not escape cartel  fines for procedural reasons."
For questions about editorial content, or to subscribe call +44 (0) 20 7626 0600, info@steelbb.com
© Steel Business Briefing 2006

CO       thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN         i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | imet : Metals/Mining
NS        eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB     Steel Business Briefing
AN        Document STSCNW0020061228e2cl0000q



















Page 32 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD      Contents
WC     469 words
PD      21 December 2006
SN      Agence Europe
SC      AGEU
LA       English
CY      Not Available for Re-Dissemination, except as permitted by your subscriber agreement. (c) Agence
Europe, Brussels 2006. All rights reserved.

LP
A LOOK BEHIND THE NEWS



TD
* A Look Behind The News, by Ferdinando Riccardi: EU must respect parallelism between enlargement and consolidation

THE DAY IN POLITICS



* (EU) EU/RUSSIA: Poland continues to veto opening of talks on new partnership agreement with Russia
* (EU) EU/ENLARGEMENT: Three accession negotiation chapters to be opened with Croatia on
Thursday
* (EU) EU/UNITED NATIONS: Erkki Tuomioja at UN to speak about Cyprus
* (EU) EU/ITALY

GENERAL NEWS



* (EU) EU/CLIMATE CHANGE: Moves for air transport to be brought into EU Emissions Trading Scheme in 2011-12
* (EU) EU/TRANSPORT: Sofia partially excluded from internal air market

* (EU) EU/RUSSIA/TRADE: “Verbal” agreement on continuation of current meat exports to Russia after accession of Bulgaria and Romania - Polish embargo remains
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION:  Commission imposes €3 168 000 fine on ThyssenKrupp Stainless AG
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Spanish measures in proposed E.ON/Endesa takeover violate EC law
* (EU) EU/STATE AID:  Commission approves conditional restructuring aid to Polish motor company
FSO
* (EU) EU/STATE AID:  Commission approves €2.03 million investment aid for German shipyard
Rolandwerft
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION:  Commission approves three acquisitions
* (EU) EU/FISHERIES: Difficult agreement on 2007 fishing possibilities
* (EU) EU/AGRICULTURE: Insufficient restructuring in sugar sector

* (EU) EU/FISHERIES: Reduction in catches of deep-sea species confirmed
Page 33 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
* (EU) EU/FISHERIES: Guide prices adopted for fisheries products
* (EU) EU/AGRICULTURE
* (EU) EP/ECB: Jean-Claude Trichet says it is unfair to take it out on the ECB
* (EU) EU/JHA
* (EU) EU/JHA:  Commission proposes ways of averting future extraordinary renditions by CIA in  Europe
* (EU) EU/DIAMOND TRADE: Union to chair Kimberley process certification system in 2007

* (EU) EU/INDUSTRY:  Commission satisfied with almost completed restructuring of Czech and Polish steel firms

* (EU) EU/INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY: EPO believes London Protocol and EPLA are stepping stones to Community patent

* (EU) EU/INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY: “Culture first! Coalition” expresses relief at  decision to defer draft recommendation on private copying
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION:  Commission approves three acquisitions under simplified procedure
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION
* (EU) EU/STATE AID:  Commission clears €76 million aid to production plant for solar energy modules
* (EU) EU/COMPETITION:  Commission approves Glatfelter takeover of Crompton's Lydney paper mill

* (EU) EU/COURT OF JUSTICE: Client/lawyer privilege only protects client/lawyer relations directly concerned by action
* (EU) EU/EIB/POLAND: Loans for SME-implemented and environmental projects
* (EU) EU/EIB/TURKEY: Loan for construction of high-speed Istanbul-Ankara railway line
* (EU) EU/EIB/FEMIP: €154 million for energy production and environmental protection in Tunisia
* (EU) EU/LEGISLATION: Main legislative acts published in Official Journal
* (EU) EU/GERMANY/STATE AID

SUPPLEMENT



* EUROPE/DOCUMENTS N. 2459:  European Council conclusions (cont.) - Part 2
* €: VALUE IN DIFFERENT CURRENCIES ON 20/12/2006
CO      thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN        i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Metals/Mining
NS      eec : European Union | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
PUB    Agence Europe SA
AN      Document AGEU000020061221e2cl00001





Page 34 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.


HD     (EU) EU/COMPETITION: Commission imposes  €3 168 000 fine on ThyssenKrupp Stainless  AG WC    232 words
PD     21 December 2006
SN     Agence Europe
SC     AGEU
LA     English
CY     Not Available for Re-Dissemination, except as permitted by your subscriber agreement. (c) Agence
Europe, Brussels 2006. All rights reserved.

LP
Brussels, 20/12/2006 (Agence Europe) - The European Commission has re-adopted a decision on a cartel in the stainless steel sector and fined ThyssenKrupp Stainless AG (formerly Krupp Nirosta GmbH) a total of €3 168 000. The infringement consisted in the participation of  Thyssen Stahl GmbH (formerly Thyssen Stahl AG) in a cartel fixing an important part of the price of stainless steel ("the alloy surcharge") between 1993 and 1994 in violation of Article 65 of the (now lapsed) ECSC Treaty. The re-adoption
follows a judgement of the Court of Justice of 14 July 2005, confirming the Court of First Instance's partial annulment, on procedural grounds, of the  Commission decision of 21 January 1998 insofar as the  fine imposed on ThyssenKrupp Stainless AG for the infringement committed by  Thyssen Stahl GmbH was concerned.

TD
The procedural mistake in point is that the  Commission had not explicitly invited ThyssenKrupp Stainless AG to give its views on the cartel behaviour of  Thyssen Stahl GmbH for which it was fined. The procedure was reopened and the mistake corrected. In addition to the a 10% reduction granted in 1998, a supplementary 10% was granted by the Court of First Instance as part of the clemency communication of
1996 which increased the  fine from €3 564 000 to €3 168 000. (cd)

CO     thyssn : ThyssenKrupp AG
IN      i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | imet : Metals/Mining

NS     eec : European Union | eucj : European Court of Justice | c34 : Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ocat : International Pol-Econ Organizations
RE     gfr : Germany | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
PUB  Agence Europe SA
AN     Document AGEU000020061221e2cl0000a

Search Summary

Text                                 commission and decision and euro* and Thyssen* and fine* not "elevators and escalators" not "large lift manufacturers" not "The following committee is also meeting on Tuesday"
Date                                20/11/2006 to 20/01/2007
Source                            All Sources Author                             All Authors Company                        All Companies Subject                           All Subjects Industry                           All Industries Region                            All Regions Language                       All Languages Results Found                13

Page 35 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
Timestamp                      3 April 2019 3:35 PM






































































Page 36 of 36 © 2019 Factiva, Inc. All rights  reserved.
